site/src/documents/api-references/spin/00-overview/00-introduction.html.md, before:

---

title: 'Introduction'
category: 'Overview'

---

camunda Spin is a library for simple XML and JSON processing on the JVM (Java
Virtual Machine), targeting Java and JVM-based scripting languages such as
Groovy, JRuby, Jython, Javascript and Java Expression Language. It provides a
comprehensible fluent API for working with different data formats through
lightweight wrapper objects.

Spin can be used in any Java-based application by adding the following maven
dependency to your `pom.xml` file:

<div class="alert alert-info">
  If you use other camunda BPM projects please import the
  <a class="alert-link" href="ref:/guides/getting-started-guides/#apache-maven-the-camunda-bom">
  camunda BOM</a> to ensure correct versions for every camunda project.
</div>

```xml
<dependencyManagement>
  <dependencies>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.camunda.spin</groupId>
      <artifactId>camunda-spin-bom</artifactId>
      <scope>import</scope>
      <type>pom</type>
      <version>${version.spin}</version>
    </dependency>
  </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
```

```xml
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.camunda.spin</groupId>
    <artifactId>camunda-spin-core</artifactId>
  </dependency>

  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.camunda.spin</groupId>
    <artifactId>camunda-spin-dataformat-all</artifactId>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
```


camunda Spin is published to [maven central][1].

[1]: http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Ccamunda-spin

Commit message:

chore(refs): rename connect & spin references
related to #CAM-3029

site/src/documents/api-references/spin/00-overview/00-introduction.html.md, after:

---

title: 'Introduction'
category: 'Overview'

---

camunda Spin is a library for simple XML and JSON processing on the JVM (Java
Virtual Machine), targeting Java and JVM-based scripting languages such as
Groovy, JRuby, Jython, Javascript and Java Expression Language. It provides a
comprehensible fluent API for working with different data formats through
lightweight wrapper objects.

Spin can be used in any Java-based application by adding the following maven
dependency to your `pom.xml` file:

<div class="alert alert-info">
  If you use spin in combination with other camunda BPM projects (such as camunda process engine),
  please import the <a class="alert-link" href="ref:/guides/getting-started-guides/#apache-maven-the-camunda-bom">
  camunda BOM</a> to ensure that you use the camunda Spin version matching your process engine
  version.
</div>

```xml
<dependencyManagement>
  <dependencies>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.camunda.spin</groupId>
      <artifactId>camunda-spin-bom</artifactId>
      <scope>import</scope>
      <type>pom</type>
      <version>${version.spin}</version>
    </dependency>
  </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
```

```xml
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.camunda.spin</groupId>
    <artifactId>camunda-spin-core</artifactId>
  </dependency>

  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.camunda.spin</groupId>
    <artifactId>camunda-spin-dataformat-all</artifactId>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
```


camunda Spin is published to [maven central][1].

[1]: http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Ccamunda-spin
