content/installation/full/tomcat/pre-packaged.md, before:

---

title: 'Install the Pre-Packaged Distribution'
weight: 10

menu:
  main:
    name: "Pre-Packaged Distribution"
    identifier: "installation-guide-full-tomcat-install-pre-built"
    parent: "installation-guide-full-tomcat"
    pre: "Download and install Apache Tomcat with the Full Distribution pre-deployed and pre-configured."

---

# Installation Procedure

1.  Download the pre-packaged distribution from http://camunda.org/release/camunda-bpm/tomcat/.
2.  Unpack the distro to a directory.
3.  Adjust the datasource according to your needs (see [Manual Installation]({{<relref "installation/full/tomcat/manual.md" >}})).
4.  Startup the server by running `camunda-welcome.bat` or by using the `$TOMCAT_HOME/bin/startup.{bat/sh}` script.


# Accessing the H2 console

You can easily access the H2 console to inspect your local H2 database (used in demo/evaluation scenarios):

1.  Go to http://localhost:8080/h2/h2
2.  Login with the following data:
    *   jdbc:h2:./camunda-h2-dbs/process-engine
    *   User: sa
    *   Password: sa

Commit message:

docs(production): doc that "invoice" should not be deployed on prod
Related to CAM-8441

content/installation/full/tomcat/pre-packaged.md, after:

---

title: 'Install the Pre-Packaged Distribution'
weight: 10

menu:
  main:
    name: "Pre-Packaged Distribution"
    identifier: "installation-guide-full-tomcat-install-pre-built"
    parent: "installation-guide-full-tomcat"
    pre: "Download and install Apache Tomcat with the Full Distribution pre-deployed and pre-configured."

---

# Installation Procedure

1.  Download the pre-packaged distribution from http://camunda.org/release/camunda-bpm/tomcat/.
2.  Unpack the distro to a directory.*
3.  Adjust the datasource according to your needs (see [Manual Installation]({{<relref "installation/full/tomcat/manual.md" >}})).
4.  Startup the server by running `camunda-welcome.bat` or by using the `$TOMCAT_HOME/bin/startup.{bat/sh}` script.

{{< note class="info" title="Production environment" >}}
*Delete the "invoice" example application when moving into a production environment. {{< /note >}}

# Accessing the H2 console

You can easily access the H2 console to inspect your local H2 database (used in demo/evaluation scenarios):

1.  Go to http://localhost:8080/h2/h2
2.  Login with the following data:
    *   jdbc:h2:./camunda-h2-dbs/process-engine
    *   User: sa
    *   Password: sa
