content/reference/rest/process-definition/get-diagram.md, before:

---

title: 'Get Process Diagram'
weight: 20

menu:
  main:
    name: "Get Diagram"
    identifier: "rest-api-process-definition-get-process-diagram"
    parent: "rest-api-process-definition"
    pre: "GET `/process-definition/{id}/diagram`
          </br>
          GET `/process-definition/key/{key}/diagram`
          </br>
          GET `/process-definition/key/{key}/tenant-id/{tenant-id}/diagram`"

---

Retrieves the diagram of a process definition.


# Method

GET `/process-definition/{id}/diagram`

GET `/process-definition/key/{key}/diagram` (returns the diagram for the latest version of the process definition which belongs to no tenant)

GET `/process-definition/key/{key}/tenant-id/{tenant-id}/diagram` (returns the diagram for the latest version of process definition for tenant)


# Parameters

## Path Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>The id of the process definition.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>key</td>
    <td>The key of the process definition (the latest version thereof) to be retrieved.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>tenant-id</td>
    <td>The id of the tenant the process definition belongs to.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Result

The image diagram of this process.

# Response Codes

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>image/png, image/gif, ... (defaults to application/octet-stream if the file suffix is unknown</td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>204</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>The process definition doesn't have an associated diagram.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>404</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Process definition with given id or key does not exist.
        See the <a href="{{< relref "reference/rest/overview/index.md#error-handling" >}}">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Example

## Request

GET `/process-definition/invoice:1:9f86d61f-9ee5-11e3-be3b-606720b6f99c/diagram`

GET `/process-definition/key/invoice/diagram`

Commit message:

docs(rest): add image resource note
The Get Diagram endpoint will return a custom image if the image is uploaded during deployment.

Related to #162

content/reference/rest/process-definition/get-diagram.md, after:

---

title: 'Get Process Diagram'
weight: 20

menu:
  main:
    name: "Get Diagram"
    identifier: "rest-api-process-definition-get-process-diagram"
    parent: "rest-api-process-definition"
    pre: "GET `/process-definition/{id}/diagram`
          </br>
          GET `/process-definition/key/{key}/diagram`
          </br>
          GET `/process-definition/key/{key}/tenant-id/{tenant-id}/diagram`"

---

Retrieves the diagram of a process definition.

If the process definition's deployment contains an image resource with the same file name as the process definition, the deployed image will be returned by the Get Diagram endpoint.  Example: `someProcess.bpmn` and `someProcess.png`. Supported file extentions for the image are: `svg`, `png`, `jpg`, and `gif`.


# Method

GET `/process-definition/{id}/diagram`

GET `/process-definition/key/{key}/diagram` (returns the diagram for the latest version of the process definition which belongs to no tenant)

GET `/process-definition/key/{key}/tenant-id/{tenant-id}/diagram` (returns the diagram for the latest version of process definition for tenant)


# Parameters

## Path Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>The id of the process definition.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>key</td>
    <td>The key of the process definition (the latest version thereof) to be retrieved.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>tenant-id</td>
    <td>The id of the tenant the process definition belongs to.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Result

The image diagram of this process.

# Response Codes

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>image/png, image/gif, ... (defaults to application/octet-stream if the file suffix is unknown</td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>204</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>The process definition doesn't have an associated diagram.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>404</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Process definition with given id or key does not exist.
        See the <a href="{{< relref "reference/rest/overview/index.md#error-handling" >}}">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Example

## Request

GET `/process-definition/invoice:1:9f86d61f-9ee5-11e3-be3b-606720b6f99c/diagram`

GET `/process-definition/key/invoice/diagram`
