content/reference/rest/process-definition/get-query-count.md, before:

---

title: 'Get Definitions Count'
weight: 40

menu:
  main:
    identifier: "rest-api-process-definition-get-definitions-count"
    parent: "rest-api-process-definition"

---


Request the number of process definitions that fulfill the query criteria. Takes the same filtering parameters as the
[GET query](ref:#process-definition-get-definitions).


Method
--------------

GET `/process-definition/count`


Parameters
--------------


#### Query Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>processDefinitionId</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>processDefinitionIdIn</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition ids.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>name</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition name.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>nameLike</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition names that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>deploymentId</td>
    <td>Filter by the deployment the id belongs to.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>key</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition key, i.e. the id in the BPMN 2.0 XML. Exact match.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>keyLike</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition keys that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>category</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition category. Exact match.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>categoryLike</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition categories that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>version</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition version.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>latestVersion</td>
    <td>Only include those process definitions that are latest versions. Value may only be <code>true</code>, as <code>false</code> is the default behavior.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>resourceName</td>
    <td>Filter by the name of the process definition resource. Exact match.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>resourceNameLike</td>
    <td>Filter by names of those process definition resources that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>startableBy</td>
    <td>Filter by a user name who is allowed to start the process.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>active</td>
    <td>Only include active process definitions. Value may only be <code>true</code>, as <code>false</code> is the default behavior.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>suspended</td>
    <td>Only include suspended process definitions. Value may only be <code>true</code>, as <code>false</code> is the default behavior.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentId</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentType</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident type.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentMessage</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident message. Exact match.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentMessageLike</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident message that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


Result
--------------

A JSON object that contains the count as the only property.

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>count</td>
    <td>Number</td>
    <td>The number of matching process definitions.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


Response codes
--------------

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Returned if some of the query parameters are invalid, for example if a <code>sortOrder</code> parameter is supplied, but no <code>sortBy</code>. See the <a href="ref:#overview-introduction">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


Example
--------------

#### Request

<!-- TODO: Insert a 'real' example -->
GET `/process-definition/count?keyLike=Key&version=47`

#### Response

    {"count": 1}

Commit message:

refactor(rest): adjust process definition section
related to #CAM-4421

content/reference/rest/process-definition/get-query-count.md, after:

---

title: 'Get Definitions Count'
weight: 40

menu:
  main:
    name: "Get List Count"
    identifier: "rest-api-process-definition-get-definitions-count"
    parent: "rest-api-process-definition"
    pre: "GET `/process-definition/count`"

---


Request the number of process definitions that fulfill the query criteria. Takes the same filtering parameters as the
[GET query]({{< relref "reference/rest/process-definition/get-query.md" >}}).


# Method

GET `/process-definition/count`


# Parameters

## Query Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>processDefinitionId</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>processDefinitionIdIn</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition ids.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>name</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition name.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>nameLike</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition names that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>deploymentId</td>
    <td>Filter by the deployment the id belongs to.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>key</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition key, i.e. the id in the BPMN 2.0 XML. Exact match.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>keyLike</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition keys that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>category</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition category. Exact match.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>categoryLike</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition categories that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>version</td>
    <td>Filter by process definition version.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>latestVersion</td>
    <td>Only include those process definitions that are latest versions. Value may only be <code>true</code>, as <code>false</code> is the default behavior.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>resourceName</td>
    <td>Filter by the name of the process definition resource. Exact match.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>resourceNameLike</td>
    <td>Filter by names of those process definition resources that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>startableBy</td>
    <td>Filter by a user name who is allowed to start the process.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>active</td>
    <td>Only include active process definitions. Value may only be <code>true</code>, as <code>false</code> is the default behavior.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>suspended</td>
    <td>Only include suspended process definitions. Value may only be <code>true</code>, as <code>false</code> is the default behavior.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentId</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentType</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident type.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentMessage</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident message. Exact match.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentMessageLike</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident message that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Result

A JSON object that contains the count as the only property.

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>count</td>
    <td>Number</td>
    <td>The number of matching process definitions.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Response Codes

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Returned if some of the query parameters are invalid, for example if a <code>sortOrder</code> parameter is supplied, but no <code>sortBy</code>. See the <a href="{{< relref "reference/rest/overview/index.md#error-handling" >}}">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Example

## Request

<!-- TODO: Insert a 'real' example -->
GET `/process-definition/count?keyLike=Key&version=47`

## Response

    {"count": 1}
