site/src/documents/guides/installation-guide/glassfish/chapters/01-bpm-platform/02-install-on-a-vanilla-glassfish.html.md, before:

---

title: 'Install the platform on a vanilla GlassFish'
shortTitle: 'Install on a vanilla GlassFish'
category: 'BPM Platform'

---

This section will describe how you can install the camunda BPM platform on a [vanilla Glassfish 3.1](http://glassfish.java.net/), if you are not able to use the pre-packaged Glassfish distribution. Regardless we recommand you to [download a Glassfish 3.1 distribution](http://camunda.org/download/) to use the required modules.

### <a id="database-camunda-bpm-platform"></a>Create the database schema for camunda BPM platform

If you do not want to use the H2 database, you first have to create a database schema for camunda BPM platform. The camunda BPM distribution ships with a set of SQL create scripts that can be executed by a database administrator.

The database creation scripts are reside in the `sql/create` folder:

`$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/sql/create/*_engine_$PLATFORM_VERSION.sql`
`$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/sql/create/*_identity_$PLATFORM_VERSION.sql`

There is an individual SQL script for each supported database. Select the script appropriate for your database and run it with your database administration tool. (e.g. SqlDeveloper for Oracle).

<!--The next sections describe how to configure the Glassfish and to install the camunda BPM platfrom on Glassfish. If you prefer you can do the following [configurations via Glassfish Administration Console](ref:#configuring-admin-console) and [skip](ref:#configuring-admin-console) the next sections.-->

### <a id="configuring-jdbc"></a>Configuring JDBC Connection Pool and JDBC Resource

The JDBC Connection Pool and the JDBC Resource can be configured by editing the file `domain.xml` inside the folder `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/domains/<domain>/config/`.

The following example shows the configuration based on a H2 database.

    <domain>
      ...
      <resources>
        ...
        <jdbc-resource pool-name="ProcessEnginePool"
                       jndi-name="jdbc/ProcessEngine"
                       enabled="true">
        </jdbc-resource>

        <jdbc-connection-pool is-isolation-level-guaranteed="false"
                              datasource-classname="org.h2.jdbcx.JdbcDataSource"
                              res-type="javax.sql.DataSource"
                              non-transactional-connections="true"
                              name="ProcessEnginePool">
          <property name="Url"
                    value="jdbc:h2:./camunda-h2-dbs/process-engine;DB_CLOSE_DELAY=-1;MVCC=TRUE;DB_CLOSE_ON_EXIT=FALSE">
          </property>
          <property name="User" value="sa"></property>
          <property name="Password" value="sa"></property>
        </jdbc-connection-pool>
      </resources>

      <servers>
        <server>
          ...
          <resource-ref ref="jdbc/ProcessEngine"></resource-ref>
        </server>
      </servers>
    </domain>

In case of using another database (i.e. DB2, MySQL etc.) than H2 you have to adjust the `datasource-classname` and the `res-type` attributes with the corresponding database classes and set the database specific properties (like the url etc.) inside the JDBC Connection Pool. Furthermore you have to add the corresponding JDBC driver at `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib/`. For example you can add the H2 JDBC driver which is located at `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/server/glassfish3/glassfish/lib/h2-VERSION.jar` to run with the H2 database.

### <a id="configuring-thread-pool"></a>Configuring Thread Pool for Job Executor

Therefore you have to edit the file `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/domains/<domain>/config/domain.xml` and add the following elements to `resources` section.

    <domain>
      ...
      <resources>
        ...
        <resource-adapter-config
          enabled="true"
          resource-adapter-name="camunda-jobexecutor-rar"
          thread-pool-ids="platform-jobexecutor-tp" >
        </resource-adapter-config>

        <connector-connection-pool
            enabled="true"
            name="platformJobExecutorPool"
            resource-adapter-name="camunda-jobexecutor-rar"
            connection-definition-name=
                "org.camunda.bpm.container.impl.threading.jca.outbound.JcaExecutorServiceConnectionFactory"
            transaction-support="NoTransaction" />

        <connector-resource
            enabled="true"
            pool-name="platformJobExecutorPool"
            jndi-name="eis/JcaExecutorServiceConnectionFactory" />
      </resources>

      <servers>
        <server>
          ...
          <resource-ref ref="eis/JcaExecutorServiceConnectionFactory"></resource-ref>
        </server>
      </servers>
    </domain>

To configure a thread pool for the job executor you have to add it in the corresponding `config` elements of `domain.xml`.

    <domain>
      ...
      <configs>
        ...
        <config name="server-config">
          ...
          <thread-pools>
            ...
            <thread-pool max-thread-pool-size="6"
                         name="platform-jobexecutor-tp"
                         min-thread-pool-size="3"
                         max-queue-size="10">
            </thread-pool>
          </thread-pools>
        </config>
      </configs>
    </domain>

### Installing camunda BPM platform

The following steps are required to deploy the camunda BPM platform on a Glassfish instance:

1. Merge the shared libraries from `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/lib` into `GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib` directory (i.e. copy the content into the Glassfish library directory).
2. Copy the jobexecutor resource adapter `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/camunda-jobexecutor-rar-$PLATFORM_VERSION.rar` into `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/domains/<domain>/autodeploy`. The jobexecutor recource adapter has to be deployed first because the artifact `camunda-glassfish-ear-$PLATFORM_VERSION.ear` depends on it and cannot deployed succesfully without the resource adapter. If you try to deploy both compoments with the auto-deploy feature in one step you should be aware that the deployment order is not defined in this case. Due to this we propose to startup the Glassfish to deploy initially the jobexecutor resource adapter. After a successful startup shutdown the Glassfish.
3. Copy the artifact `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/camunda-glassfish-ear-$PLATFORM_VERSION.ear` into `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/domains/<domain>/autodeploy`.
4. Startup the Glassfish.
5. After a successful startup the camunda BPM platform is installed.

As next step you can install for example the [REST API](ref:#web-applications-install-the-rest-api-web-application) on Glassfish.

Commit message:

feat(installation): how to configure the location of bpm-platform.xml
related to CAM-1240

site/src/documents/guides/installation-guide/glassfish/chapters/01-bpm-platform/02-install-on-a-vanilla-glassfish.html.md, after:

---

title: 'Install the platform on a vanilla GlassFish'
shortTitle: 'Install on a vanilla GlassFish'
category: 'BPM Platform'

---

This section will describe how you can install the camunda BPM platform on a [vanilla Glassfish 3.1](http://glassfish.java.net/), if you are not able to use the pre-packaged Glassfish distribution. Regardless we recommand you to [download a Glassfish 3.1 distribution](http://camunda.org/download/) to use the required modules.

### <a id="database-camunda-bpm-platform"></a>Create the database schema for camunda BPM platform

If you do not want to use the H2 database, you first have to create a database schema for camunda BPM platform. The camunda BPM distribution ships with a set of SQL create scripts that can be executed by a database administrator.

The database creation scripts are reside in the `sql/create` folder:

`$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/sql/create/*_engine_$PLATFORM_VERSION.sql`
`$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/sql/create/*_identity_$PLATFORM_VERSION.sql`

There is an individual SQL script for each supported database. Select the script appropriate for your database and run it with your database administration tool. (e.g. SqlDeveloper for Oracle).

<!--The next sections describe how to configure the Glassfish and to install the camunda BPM platfrom on Glassfish. If you prefer you can do the following [configurations via Glassfish Administration Console](ref:#configuring-admin-console) and [skip](ref:#configuring-admin-console) the next sections.-->

### <a id="configuring-jdbc"></a>Configuring JDBC Connection Pool and JDBC Resource

The JDBC Connection Pool and the JDBC Resource can be configured by editing the file `domain.xml` inside the folder `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/domains/<domain>/config/`.

The following example shows the configuration based on a H2 database.

    <domain>
      ...
      <resources>
        ...
        <jdbc-resource pool-name="ProcessEnginePool"
                       jndi-name="jdbc/ProcessEngine"
                       enabled="true">
        </jdbc-resource>

        <jdbc-connection-pool is-isolation-level-guaranteed="false"
                              datasource-classname="org.h2.jdbcx.JdbcDataSource"
                              res-type="javax.sql.DataSource"
                              non-transactional-connections="true"
                              name="ProcessEnginePool">
          <property name="Url"
                    value="jdbc:h2:./camunda-h2-dbs/process-engine;DB_CLOSE_DELAY=-1;MVCC=TRUE;DB_CLOSE_ON_EXIT=FALSE">
          </property>
          <property name="User" value="sa"></property>
          <property name="Password" value="sa"></property>
        </jdbc-connection-pool>
      </resources>

      <servers>
        <server>
          ...
          <resource-ref ref="jdbc/ProcessEngine"></resource-ref>
        </server>
      </servers>
    </domain>

In case of using another database (i.e. DB2, MySQL etc.) than H2 you have to adjust the `datasource-classname` and the `res-type` attributes with the corresponding database classes and set the database specific properties (like the url etc.) inside the JDBC Connection Pool. Furthermore you have to add the corresponding JDBC driver at `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib/`. For example you can add the H2 JDBC driver which is located at `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/server/glassfish3/glassfish/lib/h2-VERSION.jar` to run with the H2 database.

### <a id="configuring-thread-pool"></a>Configuring Thread Pool for Job Executor

Therefore you have to edit the file `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/domains/<domain>/config/domain.xml` and add the following elements to `resources` section.

    <domain>
      ...
      <resources>
        ...
        <resource-adapter-config
          enabled="true"
          resource-adapter-name="camunda-jobexecutor-rar"
          thread-pool-ids="platform-jobexecutor-tp" >
        </resource-adapter-config>

        <connector-connection-pool
            enabled="true"
            name="platformJobExecutorPool"
            resource-adapter-name="camunda-jobexecutor-rar"
            connection-definition-name=
                "org.camunda.bpm.container.impl.threading.jca.outbound.JcaExecutorServiceConnectionFactory"
            transaction-support="NoTransaction" />

        <connector-resource
            enabled="true"
            pool-name="platformJobExecutorPool"
            jndi-name="eis/JcaExecutorServiceConnectionFactory" />
      </resources>

      <servers>
        <server>
          ...
          <resource-ref ref="eis/JcaExecutorServiceConnectionFactory"></resource-ref>
        </server>
      </servers>
    </domain>

To configure a thread pool for the job executor you have to add it in the corresponding `config` elements of `domain.xml`.

    <domain>
      ...
      <configs>
        ...
        <config name="server-config">
          ...
          <thread-pools>
            ...
            <thread-pool max-thread-pool-size="6"
                         name="platform-jobexecutor-tp"
                         min-thread-pool-size="3"
                         max-queue-size="10">
            </thread-pool>
          </thread-pools>
        </config>
      </configs>
    </domain>

### Installing camunda BPM platform

The following steps are required to deploy the camunda BPM platform on a Glassfish instance:

1. Merge the shared libraries from `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/lib` into `GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib` directory (i.e. copy the content into the Glassfish library directory).
2. Copy the jobexecutor resource adapter `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/camunda-jobexecutor-rar-$PLATFORM_VERSION.rar` into `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/domains/<domain>/autodeploy`. The jobexecutor recource adapter has to be deployed first because the artifact `camunda-glassfish-ear-$PLATFORM_VERSION.ear` depends on it and cannot deployed succesfully without the resource adapter. If you try to deploy both compoments with the auto-deploy feature in one step you should be aware that the deployment order is not defined in this case. Due to this we propose to startup the Glassfish to deploy initially the jobexecutor resource adapter. After a successful startup shutdown the Glassfish.
3. Copy the artifact `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/camunda-glassfish-ear-$PLATFORM_VERSION.ear` into `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/domains/<domain>/autodeploy`.
4. (optional) [Configure location of the bpm-platform.xml file](ref:/api-references/deployment-descriptors/#descriptors-bpm-platformxml-configure-location-of-the-bpm-platformxml-file)
5. Startup the Glassfish.
6. After a successful startup the camunda BPM platform is installed.

As next step you can install for example the [REST API](ref:#web-applications-install-the-rest-api-web-application) on Glassfish.
