content/reference/rest/process-instance/post-query-count.md, before:

---

title: 'Get Instances Count (POST)'
weight: 110

menu:
  main:
    identifier: "rest-api-process-instance-post-query-count"
    parent: "rest-api-process-instance"

---


Query for the number of process instances that fulfill the given parameters.
This method takes the same message body as the [POST query](ref:#process-instance-get-instances-post)
and therefore it is slightly more powerful than the [GET query count](ref:#process-instance-get-instances-count).


Method
------

POST `/process-instance/count`


Parameters
----------

#### Request Body

A JSON object with the following properties:

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>processInstanceIds</td>
    <td>Filter by a list of process instance ids. Must be a JSON array of Strings.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>businessKey</td>
    <td>Filter by process instance business key.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>caseInstanceId</td>
    <td>Filter by case instance id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>processDefinitionId</td>
    <td>Filter by the process definition the instances run on.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>processDefinitionKey</td>
    <td>Filter by the key of the process definition the instances run on.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>superProcessInstance</td>
    <td>Restrict query to all process instances that are sub process instances of the given process instance. Takes a process instance id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>subProcessInstance</td>
    <td>Restrict query to all process instances that have the given process instance as a sub process instance. Takes a process instance id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>superCaseInstance</td>
    <td>Restrict query to all process instances that are sub process instances of the given case instance. Takes a case instance id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>subCaseInstance</td>
    <td>Restrict query to all process instances that have the given case instance as a sub case instance. Takes a case instance id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>active</td>
    <td>Only include active process instances. Value may only be <code>true</code>, as <code>false</code> is the default behavior.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>suspended</td>
    <td>Only include suspended process instances. Value may only be <code>true</code>, as <code>false</code> is the default behavior.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentId</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentType</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident type.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentMessage</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident message. Exact match.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentMessageLike</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident message that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>variables</td>
    <td>A JSON array to only include process instances that have variables with certain values. <br/>
    The array consists of objects with the three properties <code>key</code>, <code>operator</code> and <code>value</code>.
    <code>key (String)</code> is the variable name, <code>operator (String)</code> is the comparison operator to be used and <code>value</code> the variable value.<br/>
    <code>value</code> may be <code>String</code>, <code>Number</code> or <code>Boolean</code>.
    <br/>
    Valid operator values are: <code>eq</code> - equal to; <code>neq</code> - not equal to; <code>gt</code> - greater than;
    <code>gteq</code> - greater than or equal to; <code>lt</code> - lower than; <code>lteq</code> - lower than or equal to;
    <code>like</code>.<br/>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>


Result
------

A JSON object that contains the count as the only property.

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>count</td>
    <td>Number</td>
    <td>The number of matching process instances.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


Response codes
--------------

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Returned if some of the query parameters are invalid, for example if a <code>sortOrder</code> parameter is supplied, but no <code>sortBy</code>, or if an invalid operator for variable comparison is used. See the <a href="ref:#overview-introduction">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


Example
-------

#### Request

POST `/process-instance/count`

Request body:

    {"variables": 
        [{"name": "myVariable",
         "operator": "eq",
         "value": "camunda"
        },
        {"name": "mySecondVariable",
         "operator": "neq",
         "value": 124}],
    "processDefinitionId":"aProcessDefinitionId"}

#### Response

    {"count": 1}

Commit message:

refactor(rest): adjust process-instance section
related to #CAM-4421

content/reference/rest/process-instance/post-query-count.md, after:

---

title: 'Get Instances Count (POST)'
weight: 110

menu:
  main:
    name: "Get List Count (POST)"
    identifier: "rest-api-process-instance-post-query-count"
    parent: "rest-api-process-instance"
    pre: "POST `/process-instance/count`"

---


Query for the number of process instances that fulfill the given parameters.
This method takes the same message body as the [POST query]({{< relref "reference/rest/process-instance/post-query.md" >}})
and therefore it is slightly more powerful than the [GET query count]({{< relref "reference/rest/process-instance/get-query-count.md" >}}).


# Method

POST `/process-instance/count`


# Parameters

## Request Body

A JSON object with the following properties:

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>processInstanceIds</td>
    <td>Filter by a list of process instance ids. Must be a JSON array of Strings.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>businessKey</td>
    <td>Filter by process instance business key.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>caseInstanceId</td>
    <td>Filter by case instance id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>processDefinitionId</td>
    <td>Filter by the process definition the instances run on.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>processDefinitionKey</td>
    <td>Filter by the key of the process definition the instances run on.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>superProcessInstance</td>
    <td>Restrict query to all process instances that are sub process instances of the given process instance. Takes a process instance id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>subProcessInstance</td>
    <td>Restrict query to all process instances that have the given process instance as a sub process instance. Takes a process instance id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>superCaseInstance</td>
    <td>Restrict query to all process instances that are sub process instances of the given case instance. Takes a case instance id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>subCaseInstance</td>
    <td>Restrict query to all process instances that have the given case instance as a sub case instance. Takes a case instance id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>active</td>
    <td>Only include active process instances. Value may only be <code>true</code>, as <code>false</code> is the default behavior.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>suspended</td>
    <td>Only include suspended process instances. Value may only be <code>true</code>, as <code>false</code> is the default behavior.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentId</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentType</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident type.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentMessage</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident message. Exact match.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>incidentMessageLike</td>
    <td>Filter by the incident message that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>variables</td>
    <td>A JSON array to only include process instances that have variables with certain values. <br/>
    The array consists of objects with the three properties <code>key</code>, <code>operator</code> and <code>value</code>.
    <code>key (String)</code> is the variable name, <code>operator (String)</code> is the comparison operator to be used and <code>value</code> the variable value.<br/>
    <code>value</code> may be <code>String</code>, <code>Number</code> or <code>Boolean</code>.
    <br/>
    Valid operator values are: <code>eq</code> - equal to; <code>neq</code> - not equal to; <code>gt</code> - greater than;
    <code>gteq</code> - greater than or equal to; <code>lt</code> - lower than; <code>lteq</code> - lower than or equal to;
    <code>like</code>.<br/>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Result

A JSON object that contains the count as the only property.

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>count</td>
    <td>Number</td>
    <td>The number of matching process instances.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Response Codes

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Returned if some of the query parameters are invalid, for example if a <code>sortOrder</code> parameter is supplied, but no <code>sortBy</code>, or if an invalid operator for variable comparison is used. See the <a href="{{< relref "reference/rest/overview/index.md#error-handling" >}}">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Example

## Request

POST `/process-instance/count`

Request Body:

    {"variables": 
        [{"name": "myVariable",
         "operator": "eq",
         "value": "camunda"
        },
        {"name": "mySecondVariable",
         "operator": "neq",
         "value": 124}],
    "processDefinitionId":"aProcessDefinitionId"}

## Response

    {"count": 1}
