site/src/documents/guides/installation-guide/glassfish/chapters/02-web-applications/01-install-rest.html.md, before:

---

title: 'Install the REST API web application'
shortTitle: 'Install the REST API'
category: 'Web Applications'

---

To install the REST API, a Glassfish installation with the `org.camunda.bpm.camunda-engine` module is required.
See the above section on how to [install the pre-built distro](ref:#bpm-platform-install-the-pre-built-distro) or [install the platform on a vanilla Glassfish](ref:#bpm-platform-install-the-platform-on-a-vanilla-glassfish).

**Note**: The distro already ships the REST API exposing it on the context path `/engine-rest`.

The following steps are required to deploy the REST API on a Glassfish instance:

1. Download the REST API web application archive from our [server](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/camunda-engine-rest/).
   Choose the correct version named `$PLATFORM_VERSION/camunda-engine-rest-$PLATFORM_VERSION.war`.
2. Optionally, you may change the context path to which the REST API will be deployed (default is `/engine-rest`).
   Edit the file `WEB-INF/sun-web.xml` in the war file and update the `context-root` element accordingly.
3. Copy the war file to `$GLASSFISH_HOME/domains/domain1/autodeploy`.
4. Startup the Glassfish Application Server.
5. Access the REST API on the context path you configured.
   For example, <a href="http://localhost:8080/engine-rest/engine">http://localhost:8080/engine-rest/engine</a> should return the names of all engines of the platform,
   if you deployed the application in the context `/engine-rest`.

Commit message:

fix(Doc) Hint to Maven Nexus Server for Download WARs

site/src/documents/guides/installation-guide/glassfish/chapters/02-web-applications/01-install-rest.html.md, after:

---

title: 'Install the REST API web application'
shortTitle: 'Install the REST API'
category: 'Web Applications'

---

To install the REST API, a Glassfish installation with the `org.camunda.bpm.camunda-engine` module is required.
See the above section on how to [install the pre-built distro](ref:#bpm-platform-install-the-pre-built-distro) or [install the platform on a vanilla Glassfish](ref:#bpm-platform-install-the-platform-on-a-vanilla-glassfish).

**Note**: The distro already ships the REST API exposing it on the context path `/engine-rest`.

The following steps are required to deploy the REST API on a Glassfish instance:

1. Download the REST API web application archive from our [Maven Nexus Server](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/camunda-engine-rest/).
   Or switch to the private repository for the enterprise version (User and password from license required).
   Choose the correct version named `$PLATFORM_VERSION/camunda-engine-rest-$PLATFORM_VERSION.war`.
2. Optionally, you may change the context path to which the REST API will be deployed (default is `/engine-rest`).
   Edit the file `WEB-INF/sun-web.xml` in the war file and update the `context-root` element accordingly.
3. Copy the war file to `$GLASSFISH_HOME/domains/domain1/autodeploy`.
4. Startup the Glassfish Application Server.
5. Access the REST API on the context path you configured.
   For example, <a href="http://localhost:8080/engine-rest/engine">http://localhost:8080/engine-rest/engine</a> should return the names of all engines of the platform,
   if you deployed the application in the context `/engine-rest`.
