site/src/documents/guides/installation-guide/glassfish/guide.html.md, before:


camunda BPM Installation Guide (Glassfish)
======================================

This document will guide you through the installation of camunda BPM and its components on a <a href="http://glassfish.java.net/">Glassfish 3.1 application server</a>.

<div class="alert alert-info">
  <strong>Reading the Guide</strong> Throughout this guide we will use a number of variables to denote common path names and constants.
  <code>$GLASSFISH_HOME</code> points to the glassfish application server main directory (typically <code>glassfish3/glassfish</code> when extracted from a glassfish distribution).
  <code>$PLATFORM_VERSION</code> denotes the version of the camunda BPM platform you want to or have installed, e.g. <code>7.0.0</code>.
</div>


<a id="platform"></a>Installing the pre-built distro
----------------------------------------------------

How to...


<a id="vanilla"></a>Installing the platform on a vanilla JBoss
--------------------------------------------------------------

How to...


<a id="rest"></a>Installing the REST API web application
--------------------------------------------------------

To install the REST API, a Glassfish installation with the `org.camunda.bpm.camunda-engine` module is required.
See above, how to [install the pre-built distro](#platform) or [install the platform on a vanilla Glassfish](#vanilla).

**Note**: The distro already ships the REST API exposing it on the context path `/engine-rest`.

The following steps are required to deploy the REST API on a JBoss instance:

1. Download the REST API web application archive from [our server](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/camunda-engine-rest/).
   Choose the correct version named `$PLATFORM_VERSION/camunda-engine-rest-$PLATFORM_VERSION.war`.
2. Optionally, you may change the context path to which the REST API will be deployed (default is `/engine-rest`). 
   Edit the file `WEB-INF/sun-web.xml` in the war file and update the `context-root` element accordingly.
3. Copy the war file to `$GLASSFISH_HOME/domains/domain1/autodeploy`.
4. Startup the Glassfish Application Server.
5. Access the REST API on the context path you configured. 
   For example, <a href="http://localhost:8080/engine-rest/engine">http://localhost:8080/engine-rest/engine</a> should return the names of all engines of the platform, 
   if you deployed the application in the context `/engine-rest`. For more information on how to use the REST API


<a id="cycle"></a>Installing cycle to a running camunda BPM platform
-----------------------------------------------------------

How to...


<a id="cockpit"></a>Installing cockpit to a running camunda BPM platform
---------------------------------------------------------------

Drop a war.

Commit message:

feat(installation): add tasklist installation instructions for glassfish
closes CAM-584

site/src/documents/guides/installation-guide/glassfish/guide.html.md, after:


camunda BPM Installation Guide (Glassfish)
======================================

This document will guide you through the installation of camunda BPM and its components on a <a href="http://glassfish.java.net/">Glassfish 3.1 application server</a>.

<div class="alert alert-info">
  <strong>Reading the Guide</strong> Throughout this guide we will use a number of variables to denote common path names and constants.
  <code>$GLASSFISH_HOME</code> points to the glassfish application server main directory (typically <code>glassfish3/glassfish</code> when extracted from a glassfish distribution).
  <code>$PLATFORM_VERSION</code> denotes the version of the camunda BPM platform you want to or have installed, e.g. <code>7.0.0</code>.
</div>


<a id="platform"></a>Installing the pre-built distro
----------------------------------------------------

How to...


<a id="vanilla"></a>Installing the platform on a vanilla JBoss
--------------------------------------------------------------

How to...


<a id="rest"></a>Installing the REST API web application
--------------------------------------------------------

To install the REST API, a Glassfish installation with the `org.camunda.bpm.camunda-engine` module is required.
See above, how to [install the pre-built distro](#platform) or [install the platform on a vanilla Glassfish](#vanilla).

**Note**: The distro already ships the REST API exposing it on the context path `/engine-rest`.

The following steps are required to deploy the REST API on a JBoss instance:

1. Download the REST API web application archive from [our server](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/camunda-engine-rest/).
   Choose the correct version named `$PLATFORM_VERSION/camunda-engine-rest-$PLATFORM_VERSION.war`.
2. Optionally, you may change the context path to which the REST API will be deployed (default is `/engine-rest`). 
   Edit the file `WEB-INF/sun-web.xml` in the war file and update the `context-root` element accordingly.
3. Copy the war file to `$GLASSFISH_HOME/domains/domain1/autodeploy`.
4. Startup the Glassfish Application Server.
5. Access the REST API on the context path you configured. 
   For example, <a href="http://localhost:8080/engine-rest/engine">http://localhost:8080/engine-rest/engine</a> should return the names of all engines of the platform, 
   if you deployed the application in the context `/engine-rest`. For more information on how to use the REST API


<a id="cycle"></a>Installing camunda cycle
------------------------------------------

How to...


<a id="cockpit"></a>Installing camunda cockpit
----------------------------------------------

Drop a war.

<a id="tasklist"></a>Installing camunda tasklist
-----------------------------------------------
To install camunda tasklist, a Glassfish installation with the `org.camunda.bpm.camunda-engine` module is required.
See above, how to [install the pre-built distro](#platform) or [install the platform on a vanilla Glassfish](#vanilla).

**Note**: The distro already ships camunda tasklist. It may be accessed on the context path `/tasklist`.

The following steps are required to deploy camunda cockpit on a JBoss instance:

1. Download the tasklist web application from [our server](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/tasklist/camunda-tasklist/).
   Choose the correct version named `$PLATFORM_VERSION/camunda-tasklist-glassfish-$PLATFORM_VERSION.war`.
2. Optionally, you may change the context path to which the tasklist will be deployed (default is `/tasklist`). 
   Edit the file `WEB-INF/sun-web.xml` in the war file and update the `context-root` element accordingly.
3. Copy the war file to `$GLASSFISH_HOME/domains/domain1/autodeploy`.
4. Startup the Glassfish Application Server.
5. Access camunda tasklist on the context you configured.
