site/src/documents/api-references/rest/task/post-claim.html.md, before:

Claim Task
==========

Claim a task for a specific user.


Method
------

POST `/task/{id}/claim`


Parameters
----------

#### Path Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>The id of the task to claim.</td>
  </tr>
</table>
  
#### Request Body

A json object with the following properties:

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>userId</td>
    <td>The id of the user that claims the task.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


Result
------

This method returns no content.


Response codes
--------------

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>204</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>500</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Task with given id does not exist or claiming was not successful. See the <a href="/api-references/rest/#!/overview/introduction">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Example
--------------

#### Request

POST `/task/anId/claim`

Request body:

    {"userId": "aUserId"}

#### Response

Status 204. No content.

Commit message:

feat(assignee): Add docs for set assignee
related to CAM-1132

site/src/documents/api-references/rest/task/post-claim.html.md, after:

Claim Task
==========

Claim a task for a specific user.

**Note:** The difference with <a href="#!/task/post-assignee" doc-location-highlight>set a assignee</a> is that here a check is done if the task already has a user assigned to it.

Method
------

POST `/task/{id}/claim`


Parameters
----------

#### Path Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>The id of the task to claim.</td>
  </tr>
</table>
  
#### Request Body

A json object with the following properties:

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>userId</td>
    <td>The id of the user that claims the task.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


Result
------

This method returns no content.


Response codes
--------------

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>204</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>500</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Task with given id does not exist or claiming was not successful. See the <a href="/api-references/rest/#!/overview/introduction">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Example
--------------

#### Request

POST `/task/anId/claim`

Request body:

    {"userId": "aUserId"}

#### Response

Status 204. No content.
