content/reference/rest/user/get-query-count.md, before:

---

title: 'Get Users Count'
weight: 20

menu:
  main:
    identifier: "rest-api-user-get-list-count"
    parent: "rest-api-user"

---


Query for users using a list of parameters and retrieves the count.

Method
------

GET `/user/count`


Parameters
----------  
  
#### Query Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>Filter by the id of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>firstName</td>
    <td>Filter by the firstname of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>firstNameLike</td>
    <td>Filter by the firstname that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>lastName</td>
    <td>Filter by the lastname of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>lastNameLike</td>
    <td>Filter by the lastname that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>email</td>
    <td>Filter by the email of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>emailLike</td>
    <td>Filter by the email that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>memberOfGroup</td>
    <td>Filter for users which are members of a group.</td>
  </tr>  
</table>


Result
------

A JSON object that contains the count as the only property.

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>count</td>
    <td>Number</td>
    <td>The number of matching users.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


Response codes
--------------  

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Returned if some of the query parameters are invalid, for example if a <code>sortOrder</code> parameter is supplied, but no <code>sortBy</code> is specified. See the <a href="ref:#overview-introduction">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


Example
-------

#### Request

GET `/user/count?firstName=John`
  
#### Response

Status 200.

    {"count": 2}

Commit message:

refactor(rest): adjust user section
related to #CAM-4421

content/reference/rest/user/get-query-count.md, after:

---

title: 'Get Users Count'
weight: 20

menu:
  main:
    name: "Get List Count"
    identifier: "rest-api-user-get-list-count"
    parent: "rest-api-user"
    pre: "GET `/user/count`"

---


Query for users using a list of parameters and retrieves the count.

# Method

GET `/user/count`


# Parameters
  
## Query Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>Filter by the id of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>firstName</td>
    <td>Filter by the firstname of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>firstNameLike</td>
    <td>Filter by the firstname that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>lastName</td>
    <td>Filter by the lastname of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>lastNameLike</td>
    <td>Filter by the lastname that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>email</td>
    <td>Filter by the email of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>emailLike</td>
    <td>Filter by the email that the parameter is a substring of.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>memberOfGroup</td>
    <td>Filter for users which are members of a group.</td>
  </tr>  
</table>


# Result

A JSON object that contains the count as the only property.

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>count</td>
    <td>Number</td>
    <td>The number of matching users.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Response Codes

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Returned if some of the query parameters are invalid, for example if a <code>sortOrder</code> parameter is supplied, but no <code>sortBy</code> is specified. See the <a href="{{< relref "reference/rest/overview/index.md#error-handling" >}}">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Example

## Request

GET `/user/count?firstName=John`
  
## Response

Status 200.

    {"count": 2}
