content/reference/rest/user/get.md, before:

---

title: "Get a User's Profile"
weight: 40

menu:
  main:
    identifier: "rest-api-user-get"
    parent: "rest-api-user"

---


Retrieves a single user's profile.


Method
------

GET `/user/{id}/profile`


Parameters
----------

#### Path Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>The id of the user to be retrieved.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


Result
------

A JSON array of user objects.
Each user object has the following properties:

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>String</td>
    <td>The id of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>firstName</td>
    <td>String</td>
    <td>The firstname of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>lastName</td>
    <td>String</td>
    <td>The lastname of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>email</td>
    <td>String</td>
    <td>The email of the user.</td>
  </tr> 
  <tr>
    <td>links</td>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>A JSON array containing links to interact with the instance. The links contain only operations that the currently authenticated user is authorized to perform.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


Response codes
--------------

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>404</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Execution with given id does not exist. See the <a href="ref:#overview-introduction">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Example
-------

#### Request

GET `/user/jonny1/profile`
  
#### Response

Status 200.

    {"id":"jonny1",
      "firstName":"John",
      "lastName":"Doe",
      "email":"anEmailAddress"}

Commit message:

refactor(rest): adjust user section
related to #CAM-4421

content/reference/rest/user/get.md, after:

---

title: "Get a User's Profile"
weight: 40

menu:
  main:
    name: "Get Profile"
    identifier: "rest-api-user-get"
    parent: "rest-api-user"
    pre: "GET `/user/{id}/profile`"

---


Retrieves a single user's profile.


# Method

GET `/user/{id}/profile`


# Parameters

## Path Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>The id of the user to be retrieved.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Result

A JSON array of user objects.
Each user object has the following properties:

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>String</td>
    <td>The id of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>firstName</td>
    <td>String</td>
    <td>The firstname of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>lastName</td>
    <td>String</td>
    <td>The lastname of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>email</td>
    <td>String</td>
    <td>The email of the user.</td>
  </tr> 
  <tr>
    <td>links</td>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>A JSON array containing links to interact with the instance. The links contain only operations that the currently authenticated user is authorized to perform.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Response Codes

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>404</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Execution with given id does not exist. See the <a href="{{< relref "reference/rest/overview/index.md#error-handling" >}}">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Example

## Request

GET `/user/jonny1/profile`
  
## Response

Status 200.

    {"id":"jonny1",
      "firstName":"John",
      "lastName":"Doe",
      "email":"anEmailAddress"}
