site/src/documents/api-references/rest/job-definition/put-set-job-priority.html.md, before:

---

title: 'Set Job Definition Priority by Id'
category: 'Job Definition'

keywords: 'put'

---


Sets the default execution priority for jobs of that definition. Optionally, the priorities of all the definition's existing jobs are updated accordingly. The priority can be reset by setting it to <code>null</code>, meaning that a new job's priority will not be determined based on its definition's priority any longer.

<!-- TODO: refer to user guide on job priorities here -->

Method
------

PUT <code>/job-definition/{id}/jobPriority</code>


Parameters
----------

#### Path Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>The id of the job definition to be updated.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


#### Request Body

A JSON object with the following properties:

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>priority</td>
    <td>The new execution priority number for jobs of the given definition. The definition's priority can be reset by using the value <code>null</code>. In that case, the job definition's priority no longer applies but a new job's priority is determined as specified in the process model.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>includeJobs</td>
    <td>A boolean value indicating whether existing jobs of the given definition should receive the priority as well. Default value is <code>false</code>. Can only be <code>true</code> when the <i>priority</i> parameter is not <code>null</code>.
  </tr>
</table>


Result
------

This method returns no content.


Response codes
--------------

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>204</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>404</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Job definition with given id does not exist. See the <a href="ref:#overview-introduction">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>500</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>The retries could not be set successfully. See the <a href="ref:#overview-introduction">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Example
-------

#### Request

PUT <code>/job-definition/aJobDefId/jobPriority</code>

Request body:

    {
      "priority": 10,
      "includeJobs": true
    }

#### Response

  Status 204. No content.

Commit message:

feat(user-guide): document job prioritization
- adds a section to the user guide explaining how to activate priorities
  and how to specify them
- adds camunda:jobPriority attribute to reference

related to CAM-4233

site/src/documents/api-references/rest/job-definition/put-set-job-priority.html.md, after:

---

title: 'Set Job Definition Priority by Id'
category: 'Job Definition'

keywords: 'put'

---


Sets an overriding execution priority for jobs of that definition. Optionally, the priorities of all the definition's existing jobs are updated accordingly. The priority can be reset by setting it to <code>null</code>, meaning that a new job's priority will not be determined based on its definition's priority any longer. See the [user guide on job prioritization](ref:/guides/user-guide/#job-definition-priorities-via-managementservice-api) for details.

Method
------

PUT <code>/job-definition/{id}/jobPriority</code>


Parameters
----------

#### Path Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>The id of the job definition to be updated.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


#### Request Body

A JSON object with the following properties:

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>priority</td>
    <td>The new execution priority number for jobs of the given definition. The definition's priority can be reset by using the value <code>null</code>. In that case, the job definition's priority no longer applies but a new job's priority is determined as specified in the process model.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>includeJobs</td>
    <td>A boolean value indicating whether existing jobs of the given definition should receive the priority as well. Default value is <code>false</code>. Can only be <code>true</code> when the <i>priority</i> parameter is not <code>null</code>.
  </tr>
</table>


Result
------

This method returns no content.


Response codes
--------------

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>204</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>404</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Job definition with given id does not exist. See the <a href="ref:#overview-introduction">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>500</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>The retries could not be set successfully. See the <a href="ref:#overview-introduction">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Example
-------

#### Request

PUT <code>/job-definition/aJobDefId/jobPriority</code>

Request body:

    {
      "priority": 10,
      "includeJobs": true
    }

#### Response

  Status 204. No content.
