site/src/documents/api-references/bpmn20/10-tasks/40-script-task.html.md, before:

---

title: 'Script Task'
category: 'Tasks'

keywords: 'variables scripts results'

---

A script task is an automatic activity. When a process execution arrives at the script task, the corresponding script is executed.

<div data-bpmn-symbol="scripttask" data-bpmn-symbol-name="Script Task"></div>

A script task is defined by specifying the script and the scriptFormat.

```xml
<scriptTask id="theScriptTask" name="Execute script" scriptFormat="groovy">
  <script>
    sum = 0
    for ( i in inputArray ) {
      sum += i
    }
  </script>
</scriptTask>
```

The value of the scriptFormat attribute must be a name that is compatible with the JSR-223 (scripting for the Java platform). If you want to use a (JSR-223 compatible) scripting engine, it is necessary to add the corresponding jar to the classpath and use the appropriate name.

<div class="alert alert-info">
  <strong>Supported Script Languages:</strong>
  <p>
    camunda BPM should work with most of the JSR-223 compatible script engine implementations. 
    We test integration for Groovy, Java Script, JRuby and Jython. See also: <a href="ref:/guides/user-guide/#introduction-third-party-libraries-process-engine">Third Party Dependencies</a>
  </p>
</div>

## Variables in scripts

All process variables that are accessible through the execution that arrives in
the script task can be used within the script. In the example, the script
variable `inputArray` is in fact a process variable (an array of integers).

```xml
<script>
    sum = 0
    for ( i in inputArray ) {
      sum += i
    }
</script>
```

It's also possible to set process variables in a script. Variables can be set by the 
`setVariable(...)` methods provided by the `VariableScope` interface: 


```xml
<script>
    sum = 0
    for ( i in inputArray ) {
      sum += i
    }
    execution.setVariable("sum", sum);
</script>
```

### Enabling auto-storing of script variables

By setting the propery `autoStoreScriptVariables` to true in the process engine
configuration, the process engine will automatically store all _global_ script
variables as process variables.
 
This was the default behavior in camunda BPM 7.0 and 7.1 but it only reliably works for
for the groovy scripting language 
(see the [Note in the Migration Guide for camunda BPM 7.2](ref:/guides/migration-guide/#migrate-from-camunda-bpm-71-to-72-migrate-process-engine-configuration-set-autostorescriptvariables)).

In order to use this feature, you have to 

* set `autoStoreScriptVariables` to true in the process engine configuration,
* prefix all script variables that should not be stored as script variables using the `def`
  keyword: `def sum = 0`. In that case the variable `sum` will not
  be stored as process variable.


<div class="alert alert-info">
  <strong>Groovy-Support only:</strong>
  <p>
    The configuration flag <code>autoStoreScriptVariables</code> is only supported for Groovy Script Tasks.
  </p>
</div>

Note: the following names are reserved and cannot be used as variable names: out, out:print, lang:import, context, elcontext.

## Script results

The return value of a script task can be assigned to an already existing or to a new process variable by specifying the process variable name as a literal value for the `camunda:resultVariable` attribute of a script task definition. Any existing value for a specific process variable will be overwritten by the result value of the script execution. When not specifying a result variable name, the script result value gets ignored.

```xml
<scriptTask id="theScriptTask" name="Execute script" scriptFormat="juel" camunda:resultVariable="myVar">
  <script>#{echo}</script>
</scriptTask>
```

In the above example, the result of the script execution (the value of the resolved expression `#{echo}`) is set to the process variable named `myVar` after the script completes.

## camunda Extensions

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Attributes</th>
    <td>
      <a href="ref:#custom-extensions-camunda-extension-attributes-camundaasync">camunda:async</a>,
      <a href="ref:#custom-extensions-camunda-extension-attributes-camundaexclusive">camunda:exclusive</a>,
      <a href="ref:#custom-extensions-camunda-extension-attributes-camundaresultvariable">camunda:resultVariable</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Extension Elements</th>
    <td>
      <a href="ref:#custom-extensions-camunda-extension-elements-camundafailedjobretrytimecycle">camunda:failedJobRetryTimeCycle</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Constraints</th>
    <td>
      The <code>camunda:exclusive</code> attribute is only evaluated if the attribute
      <code>camunda:async</code> is set to <code>true</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

Commit message:

feat(engine): document script compilation
related to #CAM-2098

site/src/documents/api-references/bpmn20/10-tasks/40-script-task.html.md, after:

---

title: 'Script Task'
category: 'Tasks'

keywords: 'variables scripts results'

---

A script task is an automatic activity. When a process execution arrives at the script task, the corresponding script is executed.

<div data-bpmn-symbol="scripttask" data-bpmn-symbol-name="Script Task"></div>

A script task is defined by specifying the script and the scriptFormat.

```xml
<scriptTask id="theScriptTask" name="Execute script" scriptFormat="groovy">
  <script>
    sum = 0
    for ( i in inputArray ) {
      sum += i
    }
  </script>
</scriptTask>
```

The value of the scriptFormat attribute must be a name that is compatible with the JSR-223 (scripting for the Java platform). If you want to use a (JSR-223 compatible) scripting engine, it is necessary to add the corresponding jar to the classpath and use the appropriate name.

<div class="alert alert-info">
  <strong>Supported Script Languages:</strong>
  <p>
    camunda BPM should work with most of the JSR-223 compatible script engine implementations. 
    We test integration for Groovy, Java Script, JRuby and Jython. See also: <a href="ref:/guides/user-guide/#introduction-third-party-libraries-process-engine">Third Party Dependencies</a>
  </p>
</div>

## Variables in scripts

All process variables that are accessible through the execution that arrives in
the script task can be used within the script. In the example, the script
variable `inputArray` is in fact a process variable (an array of integers).

```xml
<script>
    sum = 0
    for ( i in inputArray ) {
      sum += i
    }
</script>
```

It's also possible to set process variables in a script. Variables can be set by the 
`setVariable(...)` methods provided by the `VariableScope` interface: 


```xml
<script>
    sum = 0
    for ( i in inputArray ) {
      sum += i
    }
    execution.setVariable("sum", sum);
</script>
```

### Enabling auto-storing of script variables

By setting the propery `autoStoreScriptVariables` to true in the process engine
configuration, the process engine will automatically store all _global_ script
variables as process variables.
 
This was the default behavior in camunda BPM 7.0 and 7.1 but it only reliably works for
for the groovy scripting language 
(see the [Note in the Migration Guide for camunda BPM 7.2](ref:/guides/migration-guide/#migrate-from-camunda-bpm-71-to-72-migrate-process-engine-configuration-set-autostorescriptvariables)).

In order to use this feature, you have to 

* set `autoStoreScriptVariables` to true in the process engine configuration,
* prefix all script variables that should not be stored as script variables using the `def`
  keyword: `def sum = 0`. In that case the variable `sum` will not
  be stored as process variable.


<div class="alert alert-info">
  <strong>Groovy-Support only:</strong>
  <p>
    The configuration flag <code>autoStoreScriptVariables</code> is only supported for Groovy Script Tasks.
  </p>
</div>

Note: the following names are reserved and cannot be used as variable names: out, out:print, lang:import, context, elcontext.

## Script results

The return value of a script task can be assigned to an already existing or to a new process variable by specifying the process variable name as a literal value for the `camunda:resultVariable` attribute of a script task definition. Any existing value for a specific process variable will be overwritten by the result value of the script execution. When not specifying a result variable name, the script result value gets ignored.

```xml
<scriptTask id="theScriptTask" name="Execute script" scriptFormat="juel" camunda:resultVariable="myVar">
  <script>#{echo}</script>
</scriptTask>
```

In the above example, the result of the script execution (the value of the resolved expression `#{echo}`) is set to the process variable named `myVar` after the script completes.

## Script Compilation

Most script engines will compile the script sourcecode either to a Java class
or to a different intermediary format prior to executing the script. Script
engines implementing the Java `Compilable` interface allow programs to retrieve
and cache the script compilation. The default setting of the process engine is
to check whether a Script Engine supports the compile feature and if true have
the script engine compile the script and then cache the compilation result.
This allows the process engine to keep from compiling a script source each time
the same script task is executed. 

By default compilation of scripts is enabled. If you need to disable script
compilation, you can set the process engine configuration flag named
`enableScriptCompilation` to false.

## camunda Extensions

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Attributes</th>
    <td>
      <a href="ref:#custom-extensions-camunda-extension-attributes-camundaasync">camunda:async</a>,
      <a href="ref:#custom-extensions-camunda-extension-attributes-camundaexclusive">camunda:exclusive</a>,
      <a href="ref:#custom-extensions-camunda-extension-attributes-camundaresultvariable">camunda:resultVariable</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Extension Elements</th>
    <td>
      <a href="ref:#custom-extensions-camunda-extension-elements-camundafailedjobretrytimecycle">camunda:failedJobRetryTimeCycle</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Constraints</th>
    <td>
      The <code>camunda:exclusive</code> attribute is only evaluated if the attribute
      <code>camunda:async</code> is set to <code>true</code>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
