site/src/documents/guides/installation-guide/jboss/chapters/02-web-applications/03-install-cockpit-tasklist.html.md, before:

---

title: 'Install camunda Cockpit and Tasklist'
category: 'Web Applications'

---


To install camunda Cockpit and Tasklist, a JBoss installation with the `org.camunda.bpm.camunda-engine` module is required.
See the above section on how to [install the pre-built distro](ref:#bpm-platform-install-the-pre-built-distro) or [install the platform on a vanilla JBoss](ref:#bpm-platform-install-the-platform-on-a-vanilla-jboss).

**Note**: The distro already ships the applications. They may be accessed via `/camunda/app/cockpit` and `/camunda/app/tasklist`, respectively.

The following steps are required to deploy the applications on a JBoss instance:

1.  Download the camunda web application that contains both applications from our [server](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/webapp/camunda-webapp-jboss/).
    Choose the correct version named `$PLATFORM_VERSION/camunda-webapp-jboss-$PLATFORM_VERSION.war`.
2.  Optionally, you may change the context path to which the application will be deployed (default is `/camunda`).
    Edit the file `WEB-INF/jboss-web.xml` in the war file and update the `context-root` element accordingly.
2.  Copy the war file to `$JBOSS_HOME/standalone/deployments`.
3.  Startup JBoss AS.
4.  Access Cockpit and Tasklist via `/camunda/app/cockpit` and `/camunda/app/tasklist` or under the context path you configured.

Commit message:

fix(Doc) Hint to Maven Nexus Server for Download WARs

site/src/documents/guides/installation-guide/jboss/chapters/02-web-applications/03-install-cockpit-tasklist.html.md, after:

---

title: 'Install camunda Cockpit and Tasklist'
category: 'Web Applications'

---


To install camunda Cockpit and Tasklist, a JBoss installation with the `org.camunda.bpm.camunda-engine` module is required.
See the above section on how to [install the pre-built distro](ref:#bpm-platform-install-the-pre-built-distro) or [install the platform on a vanilla JBoss](ref:#bpm-platform-install-the-platform-on-a-vanilla-jboss).

**Note**: The distro already ships the applications. They may be accessed via `/camunda/app/cockpit` and `/camunda/app/tasklist`, respectively.

The following steps are required to deploy the applications on a JBoss instance:

1.  Download the camunda web application that contains both applications from our [Maven Nexus Server](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/webapp/camunda-webapp-jboss/).
    Or switch to the private repository for the enterprise version (User and password from license required).
    Choose the correct version named `$PLATFORM_VERSION/camunda-webapp-jboss-$PLATFORM_VERSION.war`.
2.  Optionally, you may change the context path to which the application will be deployed (default is `/camunda`).
    Edit the file `WEB-INF/jboss-web.xml` in the war file and update the `context-root` element accordingly.
2.  Copy the war file to `$JBOSS_HOME/standalone/deployments`.
3.  Startup JBoss AS.
4.  Access Cockpit and Tasklist via `/camunda/app/cockpit` and `/camunda/app/tasklist` or under the context path you configured.
