content/modeler/camunda-modeler/bpmn.md, before:

---

title: 'Modeling BPMN in Camunda Modeler'
weight: 10

menu:
  main:
    name: "BPMN"
    identifier: "camunda-modeler-bpmn"
    parent: "camunda-modeler"
    pre: "How to model executable BPMN 2.0 process diagrams."

---

# Quickstart

## Create new BPMN 2.0 Diagram

{{< img src="img/quickstart-1.png" title="New BPMN Diagram" >}}

To start modeling, create a new BPMN 2.0 diagram by selecting *File / New File / BPMN Diagram* in the top-level menu.

## Start Modeling

{{< img src="img/quickstart-2.png" title="Start Modeling" >}}

Now you can start to create a BPMN 2.0 model. Add the desired elements from the palette on the left hand side by dragging and dropping them onto the diagram canvas. Alternatively, you can add new elements by using the context menu that appears when you select an element in the diagram. Using the wrench icon in the context menu, you can change the type of an element in place.

## BPMN 2.0 Properties for Execution

{{< img src="img/quickstart-3.png" title="Save BPMN Diagram" >}}

In the properties panel on the right hand side, you can view and edit attributes that apply to the currently selected element.

{{< img src="img/quickstart-4.png" title="Save BPMN Diagram" >}}

The panel can be hidden and restored by clicking the tab on its left border.

## Save a Diagram

{{< img src="img/quickstart-5.png" title="Save BPMN Diagram" >}}

To save your state of work, click *File / Save File As...* in the top-level menu. Then select a location on your file system to store the diagram in the BPMN 2.0 XML format. You can load that file again by clicking *File / Open File...*.

Commit message:

feat(camunda modeler): add demo screencast

content/modeler/camunda-modeler/bpmn.md, after:

---

title: 'Modeling BPMN in Camunda Modeler'
weight: 10

menu:
  main:
    name: "BPMN"
    identifier: "camunda-modeler-bpmn"
    parent: "camunda-modeler"
    pre: "How to model executable BPMN 2.0 process diagrams."

---

# Quickstart

## Create new BPMN 2.0 Diagram

{{< img src="img/quickstart-1.png" title="New BPMN Diagram" >}}

To start modeling, create a new BPMN 2.0 diagram by selecting *File / New File / BPMN Diagram* in the top-level menu.

## Start Modeling

{{< img src="img/quickstart-2.png" title="Start Modeling" >}}

Now you can start to create a BPMN 2.0 model. Add the desired elements from the palette on the left hand side by dragging and dropping them onto the diagram canvas. Alternatively, you can add new elements by using the context menu that appears when you select an element in the diagram. Using the wrench icon in the context menu, you can change the type of an element in place.

## Demo

{{< img src="img/demo.gif" title="Demo" >}}

The demo above shows how to create more BPMN 2.0 elements like lanes, task types and event definitions.

## BPMN 2.0 Coverage

The Camunda Modeler covers all BPMN 2.0 elements for modeling processes and collaborations. 

## BPMN 2.0 Properties for Execution

{{< img src="img/quickstart-3.png" title="Save BPMN Diagram" >}}

In the properties panel on the right hand side, you can view and edit attributes that apply to the currently selected element.

{{< img src="img/quickstart-4.png" title="Save BPMN Diagram" >}}

The panel can be hidden and restored by clicking the tab on its left border.

## Save a Diagram

{{< img src="img/quickstart-5.png" title="Save BPMN Diagram" >}}

To save your state of work, click *File / Save File As...* in the top-level menu. Then select a location on your file system to store the diagram in the BPMN 2.0 XML format. You can load that file again by clicking *File / Open File...*.
