content/reference/rest/deployment/get-query-count.md, before:

---

title: "Get Deployments Count"
weight: 20

menu:
  main:
    identifier: "rest-api-deployment-get-query-count"
    parent: "rest-api-deployment"

---


Query for the number of deployments that fulfill given parameters. Takes the same parameters as the [get deployments](ref:#deployment-get-deployments) method.

Method
------

GET `/deployment/count`


Parameters
----------

#### Query Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>Filter by deployment id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>name</td>
    <td>Filter by the deployment name. Exact match.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>nameLike</td>
    <td>Filter by the deployment name that the parameter is a substring of. The parameter can include the wildcard <code>%</code> to express like-strategy such as: starts with (<code>%</code>name), ends with (name<code>%</code>) or contains (<code>%</code>name<code>%</code>).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>after</td>
    <td>Restricts to all deployments after the given date. The date must have the format <code>yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss</code>, e.g., <code>2013-01-23T14:42:45</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>before</td>
    <td>Restricts to all deployments before the given date. The date must have the format <code>yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss</code>, e.g., <code>2013-01-23T14:42:45</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>sortBy</td>
    <td>Sort the results lexicographically by a given criterion. Valid values are
    <code>id</code>, <code>name</code> and <code>deploymentTime</code>.
    Must be used in conjunction with the <code>sortOrder</code> parameter.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>sortOrder</td>
    <td>Sort the results in a given order. Values may be <code>asc</code> for ascending order or <code>desc</code> for descending order.
    Must be used in conjunction with the <code>sortBy</code> parameter.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>firstResult</td>
    <td>Pagination of results. Specifies the index of the first result to return.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>maxResults</td>
    <td>Pagination of results. Specifies the maximum number of results to return. Will return less results if there are no more results left.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


Result
------

A JSON object that contains the count as the only property.

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>count</td>
    <td>Number</td>
    <td>The number of matching deployments.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


Response codes
--------------

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Returned if some of the query parameters are invalid, for example if a <code>sortOrder</code> parameter is supplied, but no <code>sortBy</code>, or if an invalid operator for variable comparison is used. See the <a href="ref:#overview-introduction">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Example
-------

#### Request

GET `/deployment/count?name=deploymentName`

#### Response

```json
{"count": 1}
```

Commit message:

refactor(rest): adjust deployment section
related to #CAM-4421

content/reference/rest/deployment/get-query-count.md, after:

---

title: "Get Deployments Count"
weight: 20

menu:
  main:
    name: "Get List Count"
    identifier: "rest-api-deployment-get-query-count"
    parent: "rest-api-deployment"
    pre: "GET `/deployment/count`"

---


Query for the number of deployments that fulfill given parameters. Takes the same parameters as the [get deployments]({{< relref "reference/rest/deployment/get-query.md" >}}) method.

# Method

GET `/deployment/count`


# Parameters

## Query Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>Filter by deployment id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>name</td>
    <td>Filter by the deployment name. Exact match.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>nameLike</td>
    <td>Filter by the deployment name that the parameter is a substring of. The parameter can include the wildcard <code>%</code> to express like-strategy such as: starts with (<code>%</code>name), ends with (name<code>%</code>) or contains (<code>%</code>name<code>%</code>).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>after</td>
    <td>Restricts to all deployments after the given date. The date must have the format <code>yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss</code>, e.g., <code>2013-01-23T14:42:45</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>before</td>
    <td>Restricts to all deployments before the given date. The date must have the format <code>yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss</code>, e.g., <code>2013-01-23T14:42:45</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>sortBy</td>
    <td>Sort the results lexicographically by a given criterion. Valid values are
    <code>id</code>, <code>name</code> and <code>deploymentTime</code>.
    Must be used in conjunction with the <code>sortOrder</code> parameter.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>sortOrder</td>
    <td>Sort the results in a given order. Values may be <code>asc</code> for ascending order or <code>desc</code> for descending order.
    Must be used in conjunction with the <code>sortBy</code> parameter.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>firstResult</td>
    <td>Pagination of results. Specifies the index of the first result to return.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>maxResults</td>
    <td>Pagination of results. Specifies the maximum number of results to return. Will return less results if there are no more results left.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Result

A JSON object that contains the count as the only property.

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Value</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>count</td>
    <td>Number</td>
    <td>The number of matching deployments.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Response Codes

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>200</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Returned if some of the query parameters are invalid, for example if a <code>sortOrder</code> parameter is supplied, but no <code>sortBy</code>, or if an invalid operator for variable comparison is used. See the <a href="{{< relref "reference/rest/overview/index.md#error-handling" >}}">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

# Example

## Request

GET `/deployment/count?name=deploymentName`

## Response

```json
{"count": 1}
```
