content/reference/rest/task/post-resolve.md, before:

---

title: 'Resolve Task'
weight: 100

menu:
  main:
    name: "Resolve"
    identifier: "rest-api-task-post-resolve"
    parent: "rest-api-task"
    pre: "POST `/task/{id}/resolve`"

---


Resolves a task and updates execution variables.


# Method

POST `/task/{id}/resolve`


# Parameters

## Path Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>The id of the task to resolve.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Request Body

A JSON object with the following properties:

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>variables</td>
    <td>A JSON object containing variable key-value pairs. Each key is a variable name and each value a JSON variable value object with the following properties:
    {{< rest-var-request transient="true">}}
  </tr>
</table>


# Result

This method returns no content.


# Response Codes

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>204</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>The variable value or type is invalid, for example if the value could not be parsed to an Integer value or the passed variable type is not supported. See the <a href="{{< relref "reference/rest/overview/index.md#error-handling" >}}">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>      
  <tr>
    <td>500</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>If the task does not exist or the corresponding process instance could not be resumed successfully. See the <a href="{{< relref "reference/rest/overview/index.md#error-handling" >}}">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Example

## Request

POST `/task/anId/resolve`

Request Body:

    {"variables":
        {"aVariable": {"value": "aStringValue", "type": "String"},
        "anotherVariable": {"value": 42, "type": "Integer"},
        "aThirdVariable": {"value": true, "type": "Boolean"}}
    }

## Response

Status 204. No content.

Commit message:

Add explanation of what resolve does
Resolve and complete can be confusing on the differences.
as per: https://groups.google.com/d/msg/camunda-bpm-users/SOVja0y54rc/HuT80RhLnx0J
This adds the explanation of what resolve does and when it is used in the context of the rest api.

content/reference/rest/task/post-resolve.md, after:

---

title: 'Resolve Task'
weight: 100

menu:
  main:
    name: "Resolve"
    identifier: "rest-api-task-post-resolve"
    parent: "rest-api-task"
    pre: "POST `/task/{id}/resolve`"

---


Resolves a task and updates execution variables.

Resolving a task marks that the assignee is done with the task delegated to them, and that it can be sent back to the owner. Can only be executed when the task has been delegated. The assignee will be set to the owner, who performed the delegation.


# Method

POST `/task/{id}/resolve`


# Parameters

## Path Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>The id of the task to resolve.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Request Body

A JSON object with the following properties:

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>variables</td>
    <td>A JSON object containing variable key-value pairs. Each key is a variable name and each value a JSON variable value object with the following properties:
    {{< rest-var-request transient="true">}}
  </tr>
</table>


# Result

This method returns no content.


# Response Codes

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>204</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>The variable value or type is invalid, for example if the value could not be parsed to an Integer value or the passed variable type is not supported. See the <a href="{{< relref "reference/rest/overview/index.md#error-handling" >}}">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>      
  <tr>
    <td>500</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>If the task does not exist or the corresponding process instance could not be resumed successfully. See the <a href="{{< relref "reference/rest/overview/index.md#error-handling" >}}">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Example

## Request

POST `/task/anId/resolve`

Request Body:

    {"variables":
        {"aVariable": {"value": "aStringValue", "type": "String"},
        "anotherVariable": {"value": 42, "type": "Integer"},
        "aThirdVariable": {"value": true, "type": "Boolean"}}
    }

## Response

Status 204. No content.
