content/update/minor/73-to-74/glassfish.md, before:

---

title: "Update a Glassfish Installation from 7.3 to 7.4"

menu:
  main:
    name: "Glassfish"
    identifier: "migration-guide-73-glassfish"
    parent: "migration-guide-73"

---

The following steps describe how to upgrade the Camunda artifacts on a Glassfish 3.1 application server in a shared process engine setting. For the entire procedure, refer to the [upgrade guide][upgrade-guide]. If not already done, make sure to download the [Camunda BPM 7.4 Glassfish distribution](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/glassfish/camunda-bpm-glassfish/).

The upgrade procedure takes the following steps:

...

<!-- TODO: determine upgrade steps and explain them in detail -->

In each of the following steps, the identifiers `$*_VERSION` refer to the current version and the new versions of the artifacts.


# 3. Configure Process Engines

## Task Query Expressions

As of 7.4, the default handling of expressions submitted as parameters of task queries has changed. Passing EL expressions in a task query enables execution of arbitrary code when the query is evaluated. The process engine no longer evaluates these expressions by default and throws an exception instead. This behavior can be toggled in the process engine configuration using the properties `enableExpressionsInAdhocQueries` (default `false`) and `enableExpressionsInStoredQueries` (default `true`). To restore the engine's previous behavior, set both flags to `true`. See the user guide on [security considerations for custom code]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/securing-custom-code.md" >}}) for details.

[upgrade-guide]: {{< relref "update/minor/73-to-74/index.md" >}}

Commit message:

chore(migration): extend note about task query expressions
- this new default behavior is already the default for >= 7.2.8 and
  >= 7.3.3

related to #CAM-3915

content/update/minor/73-to-74/glassfish.md, after:

---

title: "Update a Glassfish Installation from 7.3 to 7.4"

menu:
  main:
    name: "Glassfish"
    identifier: "migration-guide-73-glassfish"
    parent: "migration-guide-73"

---

The following steps describe how to upgrade the Camunda artifacts on a Glassfish 3.1 application server in a shared process engine setting. For the entire procedure, refer to the [upgrade guide][upgrade-guide]. If not already done, make sure to download the [Camunda BPM 7.4 Glassfish distribution](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/glassfish/camunda-bpm-glassfish/).

The upgrade procedure takes the following steps:

...

<!-- TODO: determine upgrade steps and explain them in detail -->

In each of the following steps, the identifiers `$*_VERSION` refer to the current version and the new versions of the artifacts.


# 3. Configure Process Engines

## Task Query Expressions

As of 7.4, the default handling of expressions submitted as parameters of task queries has changed. Passing EL expressions in a task query enables execution of arbitrary code when the query is evaluated. The process engine no longer evaluates these expressions by default and throws an exception instead. This behavior can be toggled in the process engine configuration using the properties `enableExpressionsInAdhocQueries` (default `false`) and `enableExpressionsInStoredQueries` (default `true`). To restore the engine's previous behavior, set both flags to `true`. See the user guide on [security considerations for custom code]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/securing-custom-code.md" >}}) for details.
This is already the default for Camunda BPM versions after and including 7.3.3 and 7.2.8.

[upgrade-guide]: {{< relref "update/minor/73-to-74/index.md" >}}
