content/update/minor/73-to-74/tomcat.md, before:

---

title: "Update a Tomcat Installation from 7.3 to 7.4"

menu:
  main:
    name: "Tomcat"
    identifier: "migration-guide-73-tomcat"
    parent: "migration-guide-73"

---

The following steps describe how to upgrade the Camunda artifacts on a Tomcat server in a shared process engine setting. For the entire procedure, refer to the [upgrade guide][upgrade-guide]. If not already done, make sure to download the [Camunda BPM 7.4 Tomcat distribution](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/tomcat/camunda-bpm-tomcat/).

The upgrade procedure takes the following steps:

...

<!-- TODO: define steps and describe in detail below -->

In each of the following steps, the identifiers `$*_VERSION` refer to the current version and the new versions of the artifacts.

{{< note title="Upgraded Tomcat Version" class="info" >}}
The pre-built Camunda 7.4 distribution ships with Tomcat 8.0.26, whereas 7.3 comes with Tomcat 7.0.62. Camunda 7.4 is supported on all Tomcat 6/7/8 versions such that a Tomcat upgrade is not required when migrating from 7.3 to 7.4.

Should you want to upgrade Tomcat along with Camunda, perform the following steps either before or after upgrading Camunda:

* Copy all your Camunda-related libraries from `$TOMCAT_HOME/lib` to the new Tomcat server's `lib`-directory.
* Apply all modifications to Tomcat configuration files such as `server.xml`/`bpm-platform.xml` to the files located in the new Tomcat server's directory.
* Undeploy all process applications and copy them to the new Tomcat server's directory for redeployment.

See the [Tomcat migration guide](https://tomcat.apache.org/migration-8.html#Migrating_from_7.0.x_to_8.0.x) for any Tomcat-specific migration notes and procedures.
{{< /note >}}

# 3. Configure Process Engines

## Task Query Expressions

As of 7.4, the default handling of expressions submitted as parameters of task queries has changed. Passing EL expressions in a task query enables execution of arbitrary code when the query is evaluated. The process engine no longer evaluates these expressions by default and throws an exception instead. This behavior can be toggled in the process engine configuration using the properties `enableExpressionsInAdhocQueries` (default `false`) and `enableExpressionsInStoredQueries` (default `true`). To restore the engine's previous behavior, set both flags to `true`. See the user guide on [security considerations for custom code]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/securing-custom-code.md" >}}) for details.
This is already the default for Camunda BPM versions after and including 7.3.3 and 7.2.8.

[upgrade-guide]: {{< relref "update/minor/73-to-74/index.md" >}}

Commit message:

chore(upgrade): renamed legacy user operation config flag
related to CAM-4849

content/update/minor/73-to-74/tomcat.md, after:

---

title: "Update a Tomcat Installation from 7.3 to 7.4"

menu:
  main:
    name: "Tomcat"
    identifier: "migration-guide-73-tomcat"
    parent: "migration-guide-73"

---

The following steps describe how to upgrade the Camunda artifacts on a Tomcat server in a shared process engine setting. For the entire procedure, refer to the [upgrade guide][upgrade-guide]. If not already done, make sure to download the [Camunda BPM 7.4 Tomcat distribution](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/tomcat/camunda-bpm-tomcat/).

The upgrade procedure takes the following steps:

...

<!-- TODO: define steps and describe in detail below -->

In each of the following steps, the identifiers `$*_VERSION` refer to the current version and the new versions of the artifacts.

{{< note title="Upgraded Tomcat Version" class="info" >}}
The pre-built Camunda 7.4 distribution ships with Tomcat 8.0.26, whereas 7.3 comes with Tomcat 7.0.62. Camunda 7.4 is supported on all Tomcat 6/7/8 versions such that a Tomcat upgrade is not required when migrating from 7.3 to 7.4.

Should you want to upgrade Tomcat along with Camunda, perform the following steps either before or after upgrading Camunda:

* Copy all your Camunda-related libraries from `$TOMCAT_HOME/lib` to the new Tomcat server's `lib`-directory.
* Apply all modifications to Tomcat configuration files such as `server.xml`/`bpm-platform.xml` to the files located in the new Tomcat server's directory.
* Undeploy all process applications and copy them to the new Tomcat server's directory for redeployment.

See the [Tomcat migration guide](https://tomcat.apache.org/migration-8.html#Migrating_from_7.0.x_to_8.0.x) for any Tomcat-specific migration notes and procedures.
{{< /note >}}

# 3. Configure Process Engines

## Task Query Expressions

As of 7.4, the default handling of expressions submitted as parameters of task queries has changed. Passing EL expressions in a task query enables execution of arbitrary code when the query is evaluated. The process engine no longer evaluates these expressions by default and throws an exception instead. This behavior can be toggled in the process engine configuration using the properties `enableExpressionsInAdhocQueries` (default `false`) and `enableExpressionsInStoredQueries` (default `true`). To restore the engine's previous behavior, set both flags to `true`. See the user guide on [security considerations for custom code]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/securing-custom-code.md" >}}) for details.
This is already the default for Camunda BPM versions after and including 7.3.3 and 7.2.8.

## User Operation Log

The behavior of the [user operation log]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/history.md#user-operation-log" >}}) has changed, so that operations are only logged if they are performed in the context of a logged in user. This behavior can be toggled in the process engine configuration using the property `restrictUserOperationLogToAuthenticatedUsers` (default `true`). To restore the engine's prior behavior, i.e. to write log entries regardless of user context, set the flag to `false`.

Furthermore, with 7.4 task events are only logged when they occur in the context of a logged in user. Task events are accessible via the deprecated API `TaskService#getTaskEvents`. If you rely on this API method, the previous behavior can be restored by setting the flag `restrictUserOperationLogToAuthenticatedUsers` to `false`.

[upgrade-guide]: {{< relref "update/minor/73-to-74/index.md" >}}
