content/update/minor/73-to-74/was.md, before:

---

title: "Update an IBM Websphere Installation from 7.3 to 7.4"

menu:
  main:
    name: "Webshere"
    identifier: "migration-guide-73-was"
    parent: "migration-guide-73"

---

The following steps describe how to upgrade the Camunda artifacts on an IBM WebSphere application server in a shared process engine setting. For the entire procedure, refer to the [upgrade guide][upgrade-guide]. If not already done, make sure to download the [Camunda BPM 7.4 IBM WebSphere distribution](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/internal/org/camunda/bpm/websphere/camunda-bpm-websphere/).

The upgrade procedure takes the following steps:

...

<!-- TODO: define steps and describe in detail below -->

In each of the following steps, the identifiers `$*_VERSION` refer to the current version and the new versions of the artifacts.

# 3. Configure Process Engines

## Task Query Expressions

As of 7.4, the default handling of expressions submitted as parameters of task queries has changed. Passing EL expressions in a task query enables execution of arbitrary code when the query is evaluated. The process engine no longer evaluates these expressions by default and throws an exception instead. This behavior can be toggled in the process engine configuration using the properties `enableExpressionsInAdhocQueries` (default `false`) and `enableExpressionsInStoredQueries` (default `true`). To restore the engine's previous behavior, set both flags to `true`. See the user guide on [security considerations for custom code]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/securing-custom-code.md" >}}) for details.
This is already the default for Camunda BPM versions after and including 7.3.3 and 7.2.8.


[upgrade-guide]: {{< relref "update/minor/73-to-74/index.md" >}}

Commit message:

chore(upgrade): renamed legacy user operation config flag
related to CAM-4849

content/update/minor/73-to-74/was.md, after:

---

title: "Update an IBM Websphere Installation from 7.3 to 7.4"

menu:
  main:
    name: "Webshere"
    identifier: "migration-guide-73-was"
    parent: "migration-guide-73"

---

The following steps describe how to upgrade the Camunda artifacts on an IBM WebSphere application server in a shared process engine setting. For the entire procedure, refer to the [upgrade guide][upgrade-guide]. If not already done, make sure to download the [Camunda BPM 7.4 IBM WebSphere distribution](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/internal/org/camunda/bpm/websphere/camunda-bpm-websphere/).

The upgrade procedure takes the following steps:

...

<!-- TODO: define steps and describe in detail below -->

In each of the following steps, the identifiers `$*_VERSION` refer to the current version and the new versions of the artifacts.

# 3. Configure Process Engines

## Task Query Expressions

As of 7.4, the default handling of expressions submitted as parameters of task queries has changed. Passing EL expressions in a task query enables execution of arbitrary code when the query is evaluated. The process engine no longer evaluates these expressions by default and throws an exception instead. This behavior can be toggled in the process engine configuration using the properties `enableExpressionsInAdhocQueries` (default `false`) and `enableExpressionsInStoredQueries` (default `true`). To restore the engine's previous behavior, set both flags to `true`. See the user guide on [security considerations for custom code]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/securing-custom-code.md" >}}) for details.
This is already the default for Camunda BPM versions after and including 7.3.3 and 7.2.8.

## User Operation Log

The behavior of the [user operation log]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/history.md#user-operation-log" >}}) has changed, so that operations are only logged if they are performed in the context of a logged in user. This behavior can be toggled in the process engine configuration using the property `restrictUserOperationLogToAuthenticatedUsers` (default `true`). To restore the engine's prior behavior, i.e. to write log entries regardless of user context, set the flag to `false`.

Furthermore, with 7.4 task events are only logged when they occur in the context of a logged in user. Task events are accessible via the deprecated API `TaskService#getTaskEvents`. If you rely on this API method, the previous behavior can be restored by setting the flag `restrictUserOperationLogToAuthenticatedUsers` to `false`.

[upgrade-guide]: {{< relref "update/minor/73-to-74/index.md" >}}
