content/user-guide/process-engine/process-versioning.md, before:

---

title: 'Process Versioning'
weight: 110

menu:
  main:
    identifier: "user-guide-process-engine-versioning"
    parent: "user-guide-process-engine"

---


# Versioning of Process Definitions

Business Processes are by nature long running. The process instances will maybe last for weeks, or months. In the meantime the state of the process instance is stored to the database. But sooner or later you might want to change the process definition even if there are still running instances.

This is supported by the process engine:

* If you redeploy a changed process definition you get a new version in the database.
* Running process instances will continue to run in the version they were started in.
* New process instances will run in the new version - unless specified explicitly.
* Support for migrating process instances to new a version is supported within certain limits.

So you can see different versions in the process definition table and the process instances are linked to this:

{{< img src="../img/versioning.png" title="Versioning" >}}

{{< note title="Multi-Tenancy" class="info" >}}
If you are using [multi-tenancy with tenant identifiers]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/multi-tenancy.md#one-process-engine-with-tenant-identifiers" >}}) then each tenant has his own process definitions which have versions independent from other tenants. See the [multi-tenancy section]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/multi-tenancy.md#versioning" >}}) for details.
{{< /note >}}


# Which Version Will be Used

When you start a process instance

* by **key**: It starts an instance of the **latest deployed version** of the process definition with the key.
* by **id**: It starts an instance of the deployed process definition with the database id. By using this you can start a **specific version**.

The default and recommended usage is to just use `startProcessInstanceByKey` and always use the latest version:

```java
processEngine.getRuntimeService().startProcessInstanceByKey("invoice");
// will use the latest version (2 in our example)
```

If you want to specifically start an instance of an old process definition, use a Process Definition Query to find the correct ProcessDefinition id and use `startProcessInstanceById`:

```java
ProcessDefinition pd = processEngine.getRepositoryService().createProcessDefinitionQuery()
    .processDefinitionKey("invoice")
    .processDefinitionVersion(1).singleResult();
processEngine.getRuntimeService().startProcessInstanceById(pd.getId());
```

When you use [BPMN CallActivities]({{< relref "reference/bpmn20/subprocesses/call-activity.md" >}}) you can configure which version is used:

```xml
<callActivity id="callSubProcess" calledElement="checkCreditProcess"
  camunda:calledElementBinding="latest|deployment|version"
  camunda:calledElementVersion="17">
</callActivity>
```

The options are

* latest: use the latest version of the process definition (as with `startProcessInstanceByKey`).
* deployment: use the process definition in the version matching the version of the calling process. This works if they are deployed within one deployment - as then they are always versioned together (see [Process Application Deployment]({{< relref "user-guide/process-applications/the-processes-xml-deployment-descriptor.md#deployment-descriptor-process-application-deployment" >}}) for more details).
* version: specify the version hard coded in the XML.


# Key vs. ID of a Process Definition

You might have spotted that two different columns exist in the process definition table with different meanings:

* Key: The key is the unique identifier of the process definition in the XML, so its value is read from the id attribute in the XML:

    ```xml
    <bpmn2:process id="invoice" ...
    ```

* Id: The id is the database primary key and an artificial key normally combined out of the key, the version and a generated id (note that the ID may be shortened to fit into the database column, so there is no guarantee that the id is built this way).

# Semantic Versioning

It is possible to tag a process definition with a semantic version attribute. This can be done by adding the 
[camunda:semanticVersion]({{< relref "reference/bpmn20/custom-extensions/extension-attributes.md#semanticversion" >}})
extension attribute to the process:

```xml
<bpmn2:process camunda:semanticVersion="1.5-patch2" ...
```

The `ProcessDefintion` will now provide a semanticVersion field which you can fetch:

```java
ProcessDefinition pd = processEngine.getRepositoryService().createProcessDefinitionQuery()
    .processDefinitionKey("invoice")
    .processDefinitionVersion(1).singleResult();
        
pd.getSemanticVersion();
```
  
or to fetch a list of all deployed process definitions which contain the specified version:

```java
List<ProcessDefinition> pdList = processEngine.getRepositoryService().createProcessDefinitionQuery()
    .semanticVersion("1.5-patch2")
    .list();
```

You can also use `semanticVersionLike` to query for a range of versions:

```java
List<ProcessDefinition> pdList = processEngine.getRepositoryService().createProcessDefinitionQuery()
    .semanticVersion("1.5-%")
    .list();
```

{{< note title="Semantic Versioning" class="info" >}} 
the semantic versioning is only for tagging and will neither influence the `startProcessInstanceByKey`
nor the `startProcessInstanceById` behavior.
{{< /note >}}

# Process Instance Migration

By default, when a new process version is deployed, process instances running on previous versions are not affected.
[Process instance migration]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/process-instance-migration.md" >}}) can be used
to migrate process instances to a new version.

Commit message:

chore(process def): rename semantic version
rename semantic version to version tag

Related to: #CAM-5528

content/user-guide/process-engine/process-versioning.md, after:

---

title: 'Process Versioning'
weight: 110

menu:
  main:
    identifier: "user-guide-process-engine-versioning"
    parent: "user-guide-process-engine"

---


# Versioning of Process Definitions

Business Processes are by nature long running. The process instances will maybe last for weeks, or months. In the meantime the state of the process instance is stored to the database. But sooner or later you might want to change the process definition even if there are still running instances.

This is supported by the process engine:

* If you redeploy a changed process definition you get a new version in the database.
* Running process instances will continue to run in the version they were started in.
* New process instances will run in the new version - unless specified explicitly.
* Support for migrating process instances to new a version is supported within certain limits.

So you can see different versions in the process definition table and the process instances are linked to this:

{{< img src="../img/versioning.png" title="Versioning" >}}

{{< note title="Multi-Tenancy" class="info" >}}
If you are using [multi-tenancy with tenant identifiers]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/multi-tenancy.md#one-process-engine-with-tenant-identifiers" >}}) then each tenant has his own process definitions which have versions independent from other tenants. See the [multi-tenancy section]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/multi-tenancy.md#versioning" >}}) for details.
{{< /note >}}


# Which Version Will be Used

When you start a process instance

* by **key**: It starts an instance of the **latest deployed version** of the process definition with the key.
* by **id**: It starts an instance of the deployed process definition with the database id. By using this you can start a **specific version**.

The default and recommended usage is to just use `startProcessInstanceByKey` and always use the latest version:

```java
processEngine.getRuntimeService().startProcessInstanceByKey("invoice");
// will use the latest version (2 in our example)
```

If you want to specifically start an instance of an old process definition, use a Process Definition Query to find the correct ProcessDefinition id and use `startProcessInstanceById`:

```java
ProcessDefinition pd = processEngine.getRepositoryService().createProcessDefinitionQuery()
    .processDefinitionKey("invoice")
    .processDefinitionVersion(1).singleResult();
processEngine.getRuntimeService().startProcessInstanceById(pd.getId());
```

When you use [BPMN CallActivities]({{< relref "reference/bpmn20/subprocesses/call-activity.md" >}}) you can configure which version is used:

```xml
<callActivity id="callSubProcess" calledElement="checkCreditProcess"
  camunda:calledElementBinding="latest|deployment|version"
  camunda:calledElementVersion="17">
</callActivity>
```

The options are

* latest: use the latest version of the process definition (as with `startProcessInstanceByKey`).
* deployment: use the process definition in the version matching the version of the calling process. This works if they are deployed within one deployment - as then they are always versioned together (see [Process Application Deployment]({{< relref "user-guide/process-applications/the-processes-xml-deployment-descriptor.md#deployment-descriptor-process-application-deployment" >}}) for more details).
* version: specify the version hard coded in the XML.


# Key vs. ID of a Process Definition

You might have spotted that two different columns exist in the process definition table with different meanings:

* Key: The key is the unique identifier of the process definition in the XML, so its value is read from the id attribute in the XML:

    ```xml
    <bpmn2:process id="invoice" ...
    ```

* Id: The id is the database primary key and an artificial key normally combined out of the key, the version and a generated id (note that the ID may be shortened to fit into the database column, so there is no guarantee that the id is built this way).

# Version Tag

It is possible to tag a process definition with a version tag attribute. This can be done by adding the
[camunda:versionTag]({{< relref "reference/bpmn20/custom-extensions/extension-attributes.md#versionTag" >}})
extension attribute to the process:

```xml
<bpmn2:process camunda:versionTag="1.5-patch2" ...
```

The `ProcessDefintion` will now provide a versionTag field which you can fetch:

```java
ProcessDefinition pd = processEngine.getRepositoryService().createProcessDefinitionQuery()
    .processDefinitionKey("invoice")
    .processDefinitionVersion(1).singleResult();

pd.getVersionTag();
```

or to fetch a list of all deployed process definitions which contain the specified version:

```java
List<ProcessDefinition> pdList = processEngine.getRepositoryService().createProcessDefinitionQuery()
    .versionTag("1.5-patch2")
    .list();

```

You can also use `versionTagLike` to query for a range of versions:

```java
List<ProcessDefinition> pdList = processEngine.getRepositoryService().createProcessDefinitionQuery()
    .versionTagLike("1.5-%")
    .list();
```

The following example shows how to start a process instance of the latest process
definition for a version tag:

```java
ProcessDefinition pd = processEngine.getRepositoryService().createProcessDefinitionQuery()
    .processDefinitionKey("invoice")
    .versionTag("1.5-patch2")
    .latest()
    .singleResult();

processEngine.getRuntimeService().startProcessInstanceById(pd.getId());
```

{{< note title="Version Tag" class="info" >}}
the version tag is only for tagging and will neither influence the `startProcessInstanceByKey`
nor the `startProcessInstanceById` behavior.
{{< /note >}}

# Process Instance Migration

By default, when a new process version is deployed, process instances running on previous versions are not affected.
[Process instance migration]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/process-instance-migration.md" >}}) can be used
to migrate process instances to a new version.
