site/src/documents/guides/installation-guide/wls/chapters/03-ldap/01-configure-ldap.html.md, before:

---

title: 'Configuring LDAP for camunda Cockpit and Tasklist'
category: 'LDAP Configuration'

---

In order to setup LDAP for the Weblogic distribution, you have to perform the following steps:

<strong>1. Add LDAP Library</strong>

Make sure the `camunda-identity-ldap-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar` is present in the
`$WLS_DOMAIN_HOME/lib` folder.

<strong>2. Adjust Process Engine Configuration</strong>
Edit the file `bpm-platform.xml` located inside the folder `camunda-oracle-weblogic-ear-$PLATFORM_VERSION/camunda-oracle-weblogic-service-$PLATFORM_VERSION/META-INF/` and add the [LDAP Identity Provider Plugin](/guides/user-guide/#process-engine-identity-service-the-ldap-identity-service) and the [Administrator Authorization Plugin](/guides/user-guide/#process-engine-authorization-service-the-administrator-authorization-plugin).

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<bpm-platform xmlns="http://www.camunda.org/schema/1.0/BpmPlatform"
  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
  xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.camunda.org/schema/1.0/BpmPlatform http://www.camunda.org/schema/1.0/BpmPlatform ">
  ...
  <process-engine name="default"> ...
    <properties>...</properties>
    <plugins>
      <plugin>
        <class>org.camunda.bpm.identity.impl.ldap.plugin.LdapIdentityProviderPlugin</class>
        <properties>

          <property name="serverUrl">ldap://localhost:4334/</property>
          <property name="managerDn">uid=jonny,ou=office-berlin,o=camunda,c=org</property>
          <property name="managerPassword">s3cr3t</property>

          <property name="baseDn">o=camunda,c=org</property>

          <property name="userSearchBase"></property>
          <property name="userSearchFilter">(objectclass=person)</property>

          <property name="userIdAttribute">uid</property>
          <property name="userFirstnameAttribute">cn</property>
          <property name="userLastnameAttribute">sn</property>
          <property name="userEmailAttribute">mail</property>
          <property name="userPasswordAttribute">userpassword</property>

          <property name="groupSearchBase"></property>
          <property name="groupSearchFilter">(objectclass=groupOfNames)</property>
          <property name="groupIdAttribute">ou</property>
          <property name="groupNameAttribute">cn</property>

          <property name="groupMemberAttribute">member</property>

        </properties>
      </plugin>
      <plugin>
        <class>org.camunda.bpm.engine.impl.plugin.AdministratorAuthorizationPlugin</class>
        <properties>
          <property name="administratorUserName">admin</property>
        </properties>
      </plugin>
    </plugins>
  </process-engine>
</bpm-platform>
```

The `administratorUserName` property should contain the user id of the LDAP user you want to grant administrator authorizations to. You can then use this user to log into the webapplication and grant authorizations to additional users.

See userguide for complete documentation on the [LDAP Identity Provider Plugin](/guides/user-guide/#process-engine-identity-service-the-ldap-identity-service) and the [Administrator Authorization Plugin](/guides/user-guide/#process-engine-authorization-service-the-administrator-authorization-plugin).

Commit message:

doc(install-guide): review WebLogic parts
related to #CAM-1677 and #CAM-1678

site/src/documents/guides/installation-guide/wls/chapters/03-ldap/01-configure-ldap.html.md, after:

---

title: 'Configuring LDAP for camunda Cockpit and Tasklist'
category: 'LDAP Configuration'

---

In order to setup LDAP for the WebLogic distribution, you have to perform the following steps:

<strong>1. Add LDAP Library</strong>

Make sure the `camunda-identity-ldap-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar` is present in the
`$WLS_DOMAIN_HOME/lib` folder.

<strong>2. Adjust Process Engine Configuration</strong>
Edit the file `bpm-platform.xml` located inside the folder `camunda-oracle-weblogic-ear-$PLATFORM_VERSION/camunda-oracle-weblogic-service-$PLATFORM_VERSION/META-INF/` and add the [LDAP Identity Provider Plugin](/guides/user-guide/#process-engine-identity-service-the-ldap-identity-service) and the [Administrator Authorization Plugin](/guides/user-guide/#process-engine-authorization-service-the-administrator-authorization-plugin).

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<bpm-platform xmlns="http://www.camunda.org/schema/1.0/BpmPlatform"
  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
  xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.camunda.org/schema/1.0/BpmPlatform http://www.camunda.org/schema/1.0/BpmPlatform ">
  ...
  <process-engine name="default"> ...
    <properties>...</properties>
    <plugins>
      <plugin>
        <class>org.camunda.bpm.identity.impl.ldap.plugin.LdapIdentityProviderPlugin</class>
        <properties>

          <property name="serverUrl">ldap://localhost:4334/</property>
          <property name="managerDn">uid=jonny,ou=office-berlin,o=camunda,c=org</property>
          <property name="managerPassword">s3cr3t</property>

          <property name="baseDn">o=camunda,c=org</property>

          <property name="userSearchBase"></property>
          <property name="userSearchFilter">(objectclass=person)</property>

          <property name="userIdAttribute">uid</property>
          <property name="userFirstnameAttribute">cn</property>
          <property name="userLastnameAttribute">sn</property>
          <property name="userEmailAttribute">mail</property>
          <property name="userPasswordAttribute">userpassword</property>

          <property name="groupSearchBase"></property>
          <property name="groupSearchFilter">(objectclass=groupOfNames)</property>
          <property name="groupIdAttribute">ou</property>
          <property name="groupNameAttribute">cn</property>

          <property name="groupMemberAttribute">member</property>

        </properties>
      </plugin>
      <plugin>
        <class>org.camunda.bpm.engine.impl.plugin.AdministratorAuthorizationPlugin</class>
        <properties>
          <property name="administratorUserName">admin</property>
        </properties>
      </plugin>
    </plugins>
  </process-engine>
</bpm-platform>
```

The `administratorUserName` property should contain the user id of the LDAP user you want to grant administrator authorizations to. You can then use this user to log into the web application and grant authorizations to additional users.

See user guide for complete documentation on the [LDAP Identity Provider Plugin](/guides/user-guide/#process-engine-identity-service-the-ldap-identity-service) and the [Administrator Authorization Plugin](/guides/user-guide/#process-engine-authorization-service-the-administrator-authorization-plugin).
