content/reference/rest/group/members/put.md, before:

---

title: "Create Group Member"
weight: 10

menu:
  main:
    identifier: "rest-api-group-member-put"
    parent: "rest-api-group-member"

---


Add a member to a group.

Method
------

PUT `/group/{id}/members/{userId}`

Parameters
----------

#### Path Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>The id of the group</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>userId</td>
    <td>The id of user to add to the group</td>
  </tr>
</table>



Result
------

This method returns no content.


Response codes
--------------

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>204</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>403</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Identity service is read-only (Cannot modify users / groups / memberships).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>500</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>In case an internal error occurs. See the <a href="ref:#overview-introduction">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Example
-------

#### Request

PUT `/group/sales/members/jonny1`


#### Response

Status 204. No content.

Commit message:

refactor(rest): adjust group section
related to #CAM-4421

content/reference/rest/group/members/put.md, after:

---

title: "Create Group Member"
weight: 10

menu:
  main:
    name: "Create"
    identifier: "rest-api-group-member-put"
    parent: "rest-api-group-member"
    pre: "PUT `/group/{id}/members/{userId}`"

---


Add a member to a group.

# Method

PUT `/group/{id}/members/{userId}`

# Parameters

## Path Parameters

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td>
    <td>The id of the group</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>userId</td>
    <td>The id of user to add to the group</td>
  </tr>
</table>



# Result

This method returns no content.


# Response Codes

<table class="table table-striped">
  <tr>
    <th>Code</th>
    <th>Media type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>204</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Request successful.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>403</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>Identity service is read-only (Cannot modify users / groups / memberships).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>500</td>
    <td>application/json</td>
    <td>In case an internal error occurs. See the <a href="{{< relref "reference/rest/overview/index.md#error-handling" >}}">Introduction</a> for the error response format.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


# Example

## Request

PUT `/group/sales/members/jonny1`


## Response

Status 204. No content.
