content/update/minor/74-to-75/glassfish.md, before:

---

title: "Update a Glassfish Installation from 7.4 to 7.5"

menu:
  main:
    name: "Glassfish"
    identifier: "migration-guide-74-glassfish"
    parent: "migration-guide-74"

---

The following steps describe how to upgrade the Camunda artifacts on a Glassfish 3.1 application server in a shared process engine setting. For the entire procedure, refer to the [upgrade guide][upgrade-guide]. If not already done, make sure to download the [Camunda BPM 7.5 Glassfish distribution](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/glassfish/camunda-bpm-glassfish/).

The upgrade procedure takes the following steps:

1. Uninstall the Camunda Applications and Archives
2. Replace Camunda Core Libraries
3. Replace Optional Camunda Libraries
4. Maintain the BPM Platform Configuration
5. Maintain Process Engine Configuration
6. Maintain Process Applications
7. Install the Camunda Archive
8. Install the Web Applications

In each of the following steps, the identifiers `$*_VERSION` refer to the current version and the new versions of the artifacts.

# 1. Uninstall the Camunda Applications and Archives

First, uninstall the Camunda web applications, namely the Camunda REST API (artifact name like `camunda-engine-rest`) and the Camunda applications Cockpit, Tasklist and Admin (artifact name like `camunda-webapp`).

Uninstall the Camunda EAR. Its name should be `camunda-glassfish-ear-$PLATFORM_VERSION.ear`. Then, uninstall the Camunda job executor adapter, called `camunda-jobexecutor-rar-$PLATFORM_VERSION.rar`.

# 2. Replace Camunda Core Libraries

After shutting down the server, replace the following libraries in `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib` with their equivalents from `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/lib`:

* `camunda-engine-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-bpmn-model-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-cmmn-model-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-xml-model-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`

Add or replace (if already present) the following libraries:

* `camunda-engine-dmn-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-engine-feel-api-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-engine-feel-juel-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-dmn-model-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-commons-logging-$COMMONS_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-commons-typed-values-$COMMONS_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-commons-utils-$COMMONS_VERSION.jar`

# 3. Replace Optional Camunda Dependencies

In addition to the core libraries, there may be optional artifacts in `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib` for LDAP integration, Camunda Spin, and Groovy scripting. If you use any of these extensions, the following upgrade steps apply:

## LDAP integration

Copy the following libraries from `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/lib` to the folder `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib`, if present:

* `camunda-identity-ldap-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`

## Camunda Spin

Copy the following libraries from `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/lib` to the folder `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib`, if present:

* `camunda-spin-core-$SPIN_VERSION.jar`

## Groovy Scripting

Copy the following libraries from `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/lib` to the folder `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib`, if present:

* `groovy-all-$GROOVY_VERSION.jar`

# 4. Maintain the BPM Platform Configuration

If you have previously replaced the default BPM platform configuration by a custom configuration following any of the ways outlined in the [deployment descriptor reference][configuration-location], it may be necessary to restore this configuration. This can be done by repeating the configuration replacement steps for the upgraded platform.

# 5. Maintain Process Engine Configuration

This section describes changes in the platform's default behavior. While the change is reasonable, your implementation may rely on the previous default behavior. Thus, the previous behavior can be restored for shared process engines by explicitly setting a configuration option.

<< Add necessary process engine configuration changes as subsections here >>

# 6. Maintain Process Applications

This section describes changes in behavior of API methods that your process applications may rely on.

<< Add necessary application changes as subsections here >>

# 7. Install the Camunda Archive

First, install the Camunda job executor resource adapter, namely the file `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/camunda-jobexecutor-rar-$PLATFORM_VERSION.rar`. Then, install the Camunda EAR, i.e., the file `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/camunda-glassfish-ear-$PLATFORM_VERSION.ear`.

# 8. Install the Web Applications

## REST API

The following steps are required to upgrade the Camunda REST API on a Glassfish instance:

1. Download the REST API web application archive from our [Maven Nexus Server](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/camunda-engine-rest/). Alternatively, switch to the private repository for the enterprise version (User and password from license required). Choose the correct version named `$PLATFORM_VERSION/camunda-engine-rest-$PLATFORM_VERSION.war`.
2. Deploy the web application archive to your Glassfish instance.

## Cockpit, Tasklist, and Admin

The following steps are required to upgrade the Camunda web applications Cockpit, Tasklist, and Admin on a Glassfish instance:

1. Download the Camunda web application archive from our [Maven Nexus Server](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/webapp/camunda-webapp-glassfish/). Alternatively, switch to the private repository for the enterprise version (User and password from license required). Choose the correct version named `$PLATFORM_VERSION/camunda-webapp-glassfish-$PLATFORM_VERSION.war`.
2. Deploy the web application archive to your Glassfish instance.

[configuration-location]: {{< relref "reference/deployment-descriptors/descriptors/bpm-platform-xml.md" >}}
[upgrade-guide]: {{< relref "update/minor/74-to-75/index.md" >}}

Commit message:

feat(engine): query Incidents by Tenant-Id
- adjust the docs for REST API
- adjust the docs for incidents in user guide
- add migration step in migration guide

related to #CAM-5192

content/update/minor/74-to-75/glassfish.md, after:

---

title: "Update a Glassfish Installation from 7.4 to 7.5"

menu:
  main:
    name: "Glassfish"
    identifier: "migration-guide-74-glassfish"
    parent: "migration-guide-74"

---

The following steps describe how to upgrade the Camunda artifacts on a Glassfish 3.1 application server in a shared process engine setting. For the entire procedure, refer to the [upgrade guide][upgrade-guide]. If not already done, make sure to download the [Camunda BPM 7.5 Glassfish distribution](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/glassfish/camunda-bpm-glassfish/).

The upgrade procedure takes the following steps:

1. Uninstall the Camunda Applications and Archives
2. Replace Camunda Core Libraries
3. Replace Optional Camunda Libraries
4. Maintain the BPM Platform Configuration
5. Maintain Process Engine Configuration
6. Maintain Process Applications
7. Install the Camunda Archive
8. Install the Web Applications

In each of the following steps, the identifiers `$*_VERSION` refer to the current version and the new versions of the artifacts.

# 1. Uninstall the Camunda Applications and Archives

First, uninstall the Camunda web applications, namely the Camunda REST API (artifact name like `camunda-engine-rest`) and the Camunda applications Cockpit, Tasklist and Admin (artifact name like `camunda-webapp`).

Uninstall the Camunda EAR. Its name should be `camunda-glassfish-ear-$PLATFORM_VERSION.ear`. Then, uninstall the Camunda job executor adapter, called `camunda-jobexecutor-rar-$PLATFORM_VERSION.rar`.

# 2. Replace Camunda Core Libraries

After shutting down the server, replace the following libraries in `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib` with their equivalents from `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/lib`:

* `camunda-engine-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-bpmn-model-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-cmmn-model-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-xml-model-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`

Add or replace (if already present) the following libraries:

* `camunda-engine-dmn-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-engine-feel-api-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-engine-feel-juel-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-dmn-model-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-commons-logging-$COMMONS_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-commons-typed-values-$COMMONS_VERSION.jar`
* `camunda-commons-utils-$COMMONS_VERSION.jar`

# 3. Replace Optional Camunda Dependencies

In addition to the core libraries, there may be optional artifacts in `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib` for LDAP integration, Camunda Spin, and Groovy scripting. If you use any of these extensions, the following upgrade steps apply:

## LDAP integration

Copy the following libraries from `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/lib` to the folder `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib`, if present:

* `camunda-identity-ldap-$PLATFORM_VERSION.jar`

## Camunda Spin

Copy the following libraries from `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/lib` to the folder `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib`, if present:

* `camunda-spin-core-$SPIN_VERSION.jar`

## Groovy Scripting

Copy the following libraries from `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/lib` to the folder `$GLASSFISH_HOME/glassfish/lib`, if present:

* `groovy-all-$GROOVY_VERSION.jar`

# 4. Maintain the BPM Platform Configuration

If you have previously replaced the default BPM platform configuration by a custom configuration following any of the ways outlined in the [deployment descriptor reference][configuration-location], it may be necessary to restore this configuration. This can be done by repeating the configuration replacement steps for the upgraded platform.

# 5. Maintain Process Engine Configuration

This section describes changes in the platform's default behavior. While the change is reasonable, your implementation may rely on the previous default behavior. Thus, the previous behavior can be restored for shared process engines by explicitly setting a configuration option.

<< Add necessary process engine configuration changes as subsections here >>

# 6. Maintain Process Applications

This section describes changes in behavior of API methods that your process applications may rely on.

<< Add necessary application changes as subsections here >>

## Incident Handler

The interface of an [Incident Handler]({{< relref "user-guide/process-engine/incidents.md" >}}) has changed. Instead of a long parameter list, the methods pass a context object which bundles all required informations, like process definition id, execution id and tenant id. Since the existing methods have been overridden, custom implementations of an incident handler have to be adjusted.

# 7. Install the Camunda Archive

First, install the Camunda job executor resource adapter, namely the file `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/camunda-jobexecutor-rar-$PLATFORM_VERSION.rar`. Then, install the Camunda EAR, i.e., the file `$GLASSFISH_DISTRIBUTION/modules/camunda-glassfish-ear-$PLATFORM_VERSION.ear`.

# 8. Install the Web Applications

## REST API

The following steps are required to upgrade the Camunda REST API on a Glassfish instance:

1. Download the REST API web application archive from our [Maven Nexus Server](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/camunda-engine-rest/). Alternatively, switch to the private repository for the enterprise version (User and password from license required). Choose the correct version named `$PLATFORM_VERSION/camunda-engine-rest-$PLATFORM_VERSION.war`.
2. Deploy the web application archive to your Glassfish instance.

## Cockpit, Tasklist, and Admin

The following steps are required to upgrade the Camunda web applications Cockpit, Tasklist, and Admin on a Glassfish instance:

1. Download the Camunda web application archive from our [Maven Nexus Server](https://app.camunda.com/nexus/content/groups/public/org/camunda/bpm/webapp/camunda-webapp-glassfish/). Alternatively, switch to the private repository for the enterprise version (User and password from license required). Choose the correct version named `$PLATFORM_VERSION/camunda-webapp-glassfish-$PLATFORM_VERSION.war`.
2. Deploy the web application archive to your Glassfish instance.

[configuration-location]: {{< relref "reference/deployment-descriptors/descriptors/bpm-platform-xml.md" >}}
[upgrade-guide]: {{< relref "update/minor/74-to-75/index.md" >}}
